Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion: Cobham plcs Group Financial Statements and Parent Company Financial Statements together, the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2018: the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the Notes to the Financial Statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group and Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 5 to the Group Financial Statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 7.7m 2017: 8.7m, based on 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Overall Parent Company materiality: 37.4m 2017: 39.7m, based on 1% of total assets.
We applied a lower materiality of 5.0m to all line items, account balances and disclosures that were in scope for the audit of the Group Financial Statements.
In response to the level of historical adjustments arising within inventory and contract balances, we have used a specific materiality level of 5.0m for thesetwo areas.
Audit scope Cobham plc has 53 reporting units which fall into four reporting Sectors.
Of the 53 reporting units, 17 were subject to a full scope audit due to their size.
Specific audit procedures were performed on certain balances and transactions in respect of other operating units.
We visited three of four overseas locations to directly supervise the work of component auditors.
For each of the four locations in which work was performed by overseas teams, we reviewed the working papers and maintained regular dialogue throughout the audit process.
86 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key audit matters: Revenue and profit recognition on contracts Group : Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment assessments Group : Accounting for uncertain tax provisions Group : Inventory provisioning Group : and Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries Parent.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the Group and its industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to the Special Security Agreement regulation for the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector, being the most significant regulatory framework, the Pensions Regulator legislation and the UK and US tax legislation, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the Financial Statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the Financial Statements such as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the Financial Statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to increase revenue or reduce expenditure, and management bias in accounting estimates.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors included: Discussions with management, internal audit and the Groups legal advisors, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud: Assessment of matters reported on the Groups whistleblowing helpline and the results of managements investigation of such matters: Reviewing correspondence with and reports to relevant regulatory authorities: Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets and the carrying value of investments in subsidiaries: Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account combinations or posted by senior management: and Incorporating elements of unpredictability into the audit procedures performed.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the Financial Statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as awhole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by ouraudit.
87 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We tested revenue transactions in the period before year end to establish Revenue and profit recognition on contracts Group Refer to page 67 Audit Committee Report Programme watchlist and Revenue whether they were recognised in the correct period, through agreement to contract accounting and page 98 Note 1 Accounting policies and related external shipping evidence, shipping terms and authorised milestone information Assumptions and estimation uncertainties Revenue recognition, documentation with customer acceptance where appropriate.
No material contract assets and liabilities and contract loss provisions.
For revenue arising from the sale of goods, we have specifically identified We assessed the basis of profit or loss recognition on the Groups significant risks that revenue transactions recorded in the period prior to year end may contracts, together with whether it was appropriate to account for them as not have been recognised in line with the relevant Incoterms, particularly separate or linked contracts.
We evaluated the accounting in the context of given material transactions can arise during this period.
the Group accounting policies, contract terms and accounting standards and The Group also has a number of significant contracts that span more than identified no material misstatements in this respect.
These contracts are subject to a high level of scrutiny For significant new contracts, we read the key contract terms and, for by management.
In particular, we focused on complex development and ongoing contracts, we understood any change clauses or amendments production contracts including those on aerial refuelling programmes such agreed in the year, considering whether any areas were subject to as KC-46.
We looked at the track record of customer The nature of much of the contracting work done by the Group means that behaviour, and any relevant correspondence, in order to obtain evidence of there are reasonably frequent contractual issues, variations and how terms were being interpreted.
We found the accounting, in all material renegotiations that arise in the ordinary course of business, for which the respects, to be in accordance with our understanding of the customer resolution is uncertain.
Costs incurred can significantly exceed amounts arrangements in place.
estimated at inception as a result of material enhancements to the We challenged the reasonableness of the assumptions behind estimated specifications originally assumed under the contracts.
For selected costs to complete by meeting with engineering staff to enquire about project contracts, we focused on: estimates, checking the basis of overhead rates used and, on a sample basis, The amount of revenue assumed as recoverable from customers, which is checking purchase orders for materials.
We also inspected risk registers and based on contractual entitlement but subject to commercial negotiation: the process by which risk was included within the cost to complete estimate.
The estimation of costs to complete the contract: Where there was insufficient evidence, we reviewed managements Whether contracts with the same customer should be accounted for as assessment of the historical forecasting accuracy to understand if the separate or linked: estimate was supportable.
No material differences were identified.
The profit recognised on revenue in the year and if this is appropriate We agreed total contracted revenue to original signed customer contracts, based on the work completed and expected contract outcome: approved change orders or to evidence of customer discussions and Whether the associated contract assets held on the Balance Sheet are agreements.
We evaluated the reasonableness of estimated revenue through recoverable or whether a contract loss provision should be recorded: and a review of, and discussion about, commercial negotiations taking place with Whether additional cost contingency meets the definition for recognition customers.
No material exceptions were found.
and measurement within the contract balances or as a provision.
We assessed the recoverability of the contract assets held by reference to The Financial Statements include a charge of 200m which is disclosed as agreements with customers regarding payment or billing profiles.
There is no definition of underlying or non underlying material exceptions were found.
within International Financial Reporting Standards, so judgement is required around the treatment of items within the Directors definition.
Consistency We agreed contract loss provisions recorded through a combination of the in identifying and disclosing items defined as, and to be excluded from, procedures above in respect of the overall outcome anticipated on the underlying operating profit is important to maintain comparability of results contracts.
We read the disclosures relating to key estimates and judgements in theFinancial Statements and are satisfied that the disclosures made areappropriate.
We also tested the presentation of non-underlying costs by assessing whether the classification was in line with the Groups accounting policy for such items, as per page 107 of the Financial Statements.
We have considered managements definition of exceptional and whether it has been appropriately disclosed, given that it is a non-GAAP measure and relates to items that could be considered as part of ongoing trading.
We did not identify any material issues arising from these procedures.
88 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We evaluated managements cash flow forecasts relating to each of the four Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment assessments Group Refer to page 67 Audit Committee Report Impairment reviews, page 98 Note CGUs with goodwill balances and the process by which they were 1 Accounting policies and related information Assumptions and estimation determined and approved.
This included confirming that the forecasts were uncertainties Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and pages 120 to 122 consistent with the latest Board approved budgets and the estimates Note 10 Intangible assets.
underpinning assessments in respect of going concern and the recoverability Management conducts an annual impairment assessment to test whether of deferred tax assets and the mathematical accuracy of the underlying the carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets exceeds the calculations, with no exceptions identified.
present value of the cash flows of the Cash Generating Units CGUs to which We assessed the methodology used and key assumptions made within the it relates.
forecasts as follows: The impairment assessments used to support the carrying value of each Future cash flow forecasts: we evaluated the reasonableness of future CGU involves the application of subjective judgement about future business cash flow forecasts based on managements historic accuracy of performance.
We considered the key assumptions made by management forecasting and our knowledge of the businesses and assessed whether within the impairment assessments to be key areas of judgement, including the forecasts only included cash flows as allowed by IAS 36 : the future cash flow forecasts, the discount rates and the long term growth Discount rates: to assess the discount rates used in the model, we used an rates applied.
internally developed range of acceptable discount rates for valuing CGUs, which is based on our view of economic indicators.
Each of the discount rates used fell within the range expected for all territories: and Long term growth rates: we compared the rates applied in the model against our own internally developed rates.
For each CGU, we performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions in order to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions required individually or collectively to result in an impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets.
For those CGUs which were most sensitive, we discussed the basis for the cash flows with senior management, obtaining corroboratory evidence where available, and concluded that no impairment was required.
Managements disclosure in note 10 of the Financial Statements includes sensitivities at a CGU level.
This is compliant with IAS 36 which requires disclosure of possible changes in key assumptions prospectively, during the period in which the impairment assessment for goodwill and acquired intangible assets will be monitored.
Through review of the impairment assessment performed by management and the disclosures made, we did not identify any material misstatements.
Accounting for uncertain tax provisions Group We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions and read Refer to page 67 Audit Committee Report Uncertain tax positions and deferred tax, correspondence from tax authorities, managements tax advisors and page 98 Note 1 Accounting policies and related information Assumptions and external legal counsel on open tax enquiries, where relevant.
We also estimation uncertainties Uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets, pages reviewed Board minutes to corroborate that the accounting was consistent 114 to 117 Note 7 Taxation and page 147 Note 30 Contingent liabilities.
with the Directors intended plan to resolve these enquiries.
The Group has a wide geographical footprint and is subject to tax laws in a We assessed the adequacy of the Directors taxation provisions by number of jurisdictions.
The Group has a number of open tax enquiries and considering factors such as the risk profile of each matter, managements has recognised a number of provisions against uncertain tax positions, the appetite for settlement and whether the provision addresses possible valuation of which is a highly judgemental area.
Where tax positions have penalties and interest.
notyet been settled with the relevant tax authorities, the Directors consider anumber of factors, including precedent, the current intentions of the Board We met with senior management and challenged the judgements made in toresolve these matters and, where necessary, the advice of external experts.
relation to a range of outcomes in respect of open enquiries.
We assessed the risk that the final determination made by the relevant tax authorities is materially different to the provisions recognised by comparing managements assessment against our own views based on all available evidence and our use of relevant specialists.
We reviewed the disclosures made in respect of tax, in particular around key estimation uncertainties, as well as contingent liabilities, and are satisfied that the disclosures made are appropriate.
89 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Inventory provisioning Group We assessed the process, methods and assumptions used to develop the Refer to page 67 Audit Committee Report Inventory provisions, page 98 Note provision for excess, obsolete or slow moving items.
This included ensuring 1 Accounting policies and related information Assumptions and estimation the provision has been calculated in line with the relevant methodology, uncertainties Inventory provisions and page 124 Note 13 Inventories.
aswell as assess the historical forecasting accuracy of management where The nature of the business performed by the Group means that some of the forecast demands were used in the assessment.
In situations where there was products held can become obsolete.
There may be long lead times on the evidence that management forecasts had not been achieved, we assessed the supply of materials which results in the holding of inventory to meet the sensitivity of the provision to the failure to meet future forecasts.
required delivery dates of customers.
There may also be instances where We also considered whether there was any indication of management bias, specialised inventory has been purchased in respect of contracts which have such as management overrides, to the established methodology.
These subsequently not been won, or have been delayed.
It is also necessary to overrides are typically applied in respect of spares held for the servicing of hold spare parts in order to support key customers and programmes should products on aircraft which have a long service life or where the business has the products require replacement or servicing.
purchased last time buys for components which would no longer be The Group has gross inventory of 363.8m and provisions for obsolescence available for purchase after a specific date.
Where the overrides were of 87.8m on its Balance Sheet.
The level of inventory held and its ageing material, we considered the appropriateness of managements judgements profile remain an area of focus for management.
based on historical demand and future usage expectations.
No material misstatements were identified.
We have considered inventory provisioning due to the estimates involved in the calculations, which are often dependent on assumptions concerning future realisable value and usage.
Furthermore, with the delay in some of the aforementioned programmes, inventory is becoming more aged and is at risk of being damaged or subject to a new level of conformity.
Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries Parent We tested the mechanical accuracy of the impairment model used by Refer to page 67 Audit Committee Report Impairment reviews, page 153 Note management for Parent Company investments and also consistency with the 1 Parent Company accounting policies Assumptions and estimation uncertainties model utilised for goodwill impairment within the Group Financial Statements.
Carrying value of investments and pages 156 to 157 Note 6 Investments in Groupundertakings.
We challenged management on the inputs into the impairment assessment calculations, including: Determining whether the carrying value of investments is impaired requires management to make significant assumptions, including the forecast assessing whether cash flow forecasts only include cash flows as allowed operating cash flows, discount rates and long term growth rates.
This is by IAS 36: highly judgemental and changes in these could result in a material change in assessing the key assumptions for sales growth used and agreeing these to the carrying value of investments.
the Board approved budget: and assessing the cash flows within the model including a reasonable allocation The impairment assessment performed has resulted in an impairment charge of Parent Company costs expected to be incurred in generating the future of 273.8m being recognised in the Parent Company Balance Sheet, cash flows for each investment balance, and known subsequent events.
reducing the total investments in subsidiaries held to 3,231.3m.
We assessed the appropriateness of the key sensitivities applied by management to the impairment model and whether the scenarios represented likely alternative outcomes from changes in key assumptions.
We reviewed whether disclosures are appropriately made, in accordance with the applicable accounting framework and are satisfied that these disclosures are appropriate.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
Of the Groups 53 reporting units, we performed audits of complete financial information at 17 reporting units in the UK, Australia, Denmark and France.
At five US reporting units, we performed audit procedures on certain balances and transactions rather than an audit of their complete financial information.
In addition to the above, we performed analytical procedures on the remaining 31 reporting units to understand key balances and transactions in the year and performed additional procedures on any unusual balances identified.
The Group is structured along four reported Sectors, being Advanced Electronic Solutions, Aviation Services, Communications and Connectivity and Mission Systems.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of 53 reporting units within these Sectors, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
The Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector operates under a Special Security Agreement SSA, with this being required to carry out business with the US Department of Defence.
The SSA places certain restrictions on access to, and communication of, information outside of US borders.
We therefore planned our audit to ensure US personnel completed the audit work on the three reporting units affected by these restrictions.
We maintained regular dialogue throughout the audit process with our US team, including a face to face meeting at the planning stage to communicate, discuss and agree the 90 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 audit plan.
We also supervised the work performed through regular dialogue and a review of the US teams working papers following our interim procedures and at the year end and we agreed the format and content of the required communications.
There are three reporting units within the SSA that were included in our audit scope.
These reporting units were subject to directed scope procedures, providing reporting to us on specified financial statement line items including revenue, contract assets and cash, as well as specified procedures on other key areas such as manual journals and inventory provisioning.
We also performed specific procedures relating to US taxation.
81% of the Groups revenue is accounted for by reporting units where we performed audits of their complete financial information or performed specific audit procedures over revenue.
62% of the Groups underlying profit before taxation is accounted for by the 17 reporting units where we performed audits of their complete financial information.
In combination with the other work referred to above, together with additional procedures performed at a Group level, including testing of significant journals posted within the Sector and Group consolidations, as well as significant adjustments made to the Financial Statements, this gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Where the work was performed by component audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole.
There are seven in scope reporting units for which the audit work was performed by overseas teams, with visits by members of the Group team made to the territories in which these are located being Denmark, France and the US.
We held briefing calls with all of our overseas teams prior to the commencement of the audit to discuss key areas of audit focus.
We reviewed the working papers of our Australian team remotely at year end.
We visited Denmark at the planning stage and met with both our audit team and local management, with a review of the working papers of our Danish audit team being performed remotely at year end.
We visited France at year end to meet our audit team and perform a review of their working papers.
As detailed above, we met with our US team twice, being a visit at the planning stage to discuss and agree the audit plan and a visit at year end to review their working papers.
We also maintained regular dialogue with all component teams throughout the audit and attended clearance calls on all in scope components.
In addition, members of the Group audit team led, or formed part of, a number of significant component teams on the audit, including the two key reporting units with the aerial refuelling development and production contracts.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Overall materiality 7.7m 2017: 8.7m.
How we determined it Based on 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmarkapplied Underlying profit before tax is defined in the Annual Report on page 107.
We We believe that total assets is an appropriate metric for assessing the Parent believe that underlying profit before tax represents an appropriate metric for Company as it holds the investments and financial instruments of the Group.
assessing the performance of the Group and provides us with a consistent We applied a lower materiality of 5.0m to all items, account balances and year on year basis for determining materiality.
It is the amount reported by disclosures that were in scope for the audit of the Group Financial Statements.
management both internally and externally to the market.
We also considered our overall Group materiality in the context of the Groups revenue, noting that it represents less than 0.5%.
In response to the level of historical adjustments raised within inventory and contract balances, we have used a specific materiality level of 5.0m for these two areas.
This level of materiality was determined to reflect the level of historical adjustment for these balances in prior years and the continuing heightened risk of misstatement.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1m and 5m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 380,000 Group audit 2017: 200,000 and 380,000 Parent Company audit 2017: 200,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
91 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc continued Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the Financial Statements However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability concern basis of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements and the to continue as a going concern.
For example, the terms on which the United Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due to Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at occur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
potential implications on the companys trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the Financial Statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 CA06, have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the Financial Statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 54 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 35 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules 92 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 54, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy ismaterially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 66 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us tothe Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision ofthe Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibility set out on page 85, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we have been appointed by the Directors to audit the Financial Statements since at least the year ended 31 December 1973 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is at least 46 years, covering up to the year ended 31 December 2018.
Pauline Campbell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 7 March 2019 93
