INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC OVERVIEW 1.
OUR OPINION IS UNMODIFIED Materiality: 74.0 million 2017: 65.0 million We have audited the financial statements of Compass Group PLC Group financial the Company for the year ended 30 September 2018 which 4.9% 2017: 4.2% of Group profit before tax statements as comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated awhole Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Coverage 97% 2017: 97% of Group profit before tax Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Parent Company Balance Risks of material misstatement versus 2017 Sheet and the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and Recurring risks Taxation uncertain direct tax provisions the related notes, including the accounting policies in notes A to T of Supplier rebates & discounts the Group financial statements and A to L of the Parent Company Parent Company financial statements: financial statements.
Valuation of investments and recoverability ofintercompany receivables IN OUR OPINION: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the 2.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS: OUR ASSESSMENT OF Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as statements and include the most significant assessed risks of adopted by the European Union: material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, the Parent Company financial statements have been properly including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with matters unchanged from 2017, in decreasing order of audit the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for BASIS FOR OPINION public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These We conducted our audit in accordance with International matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures Standardson Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit Ourresponsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We were first appointed as auditor by the Directors on 14 March 2014.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the five financial years ended 30 September 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
Nonon-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
102 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE RISK OUR RESPONSE Taxation uncertain Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: direct tax provisions The Group operates across a large Control design: Evaluating the design of the controls that the Group has Refer to page 59 number of jurisdictions and is in place to identify and quantify its uncertain direct tax exposures: Governance and subject to periodic challenges by Our taxation expertise: With the assistance of our tax specialists, Directors Report, local tax authorities on a range of tax weanalysed and challenged the assumptions used to determine pages 116 and 118 matters during the normal course of provisionsusing our knowledge and experience of the application of accounting policy business, including transfer pricing.
international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts, and pages 129 to and assessing whether the approach applied by the Group is supported As a result of the complexities of tax 130and page 164 by custom and practice: rules on transfer pricing and other financial disclosures.
tax legislation the provisioning for With the help of our tax specialists we considered whether the uncertain direct tax positions is judgementsapplied to each significant provision including the judgemental and requires the maximumpotential exposure and the likelihood of a payment being directors to make estimates in required were appropriate: relation to these uncertainties.
Test of detail: Examining the calculations prepared by the directors and agreeing key assumptions used to underlying data: The directors estimation includes assessing the likelihood of Inspecting correspondence with relevant tax authorities and assessing potentially material exposures as third party tax advice received to evaluate the conclusions drawn in the aresult of changes in local tax advice where relevant to the significant exposures faced by the Group and regulations and evaluating ongoing how these have been used by management in their assessment of the inspections by local tax authorities likelihood of any outflow and estimate of the provision: and and international bodies, which Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups could materially impact the amounts disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain direct tax positions.
recorded in the Group financial Our results statements.
In 2018 this included evaluating the impact of the We found the level of provisioning in respect of uncertain direct tax European Commissions state positions to be acceptable.
aidinvestigation into the UK CFClegislation.
Supplier rebates Rebates and discounts processing Our procedures included: anddiscounts error: Control design: Evaluating the design of the controls that the Group has Refer to page 59 The Group has a variety of in place over the accounting for supplier rebates and discounts: Governance and agreements with suppliers whereby Accounting application: Inspecting underlying contractual terms and Directors Report rebates and discounts are earned supplier correspondence for a selection of arrangements in place and andpage118 based on the quantity of considering whether the accounting policy had been applied appropriately accounting policy.
to the terms of the rebate and or discount: The majority of the rebates and Test of details: Performing detailed testing on a sample basis of the discounts due to the Group are largest rebates and discounts recognised in the period, with particular reflected in the net price charged by attention to the period in which the rebate was recognised and rebates its suppliers or are based on fixed and discounts accrued at the year-end: and percentages linked to the quantity of In addition we selected a sample of amounts invoiced as at the balance goods bought.
There is little sheet date and agreed the underlying calculation to contractual terms and estimation or judgement involved in supplier correspondence.
determining the timing and amount Our results to be recognised.
However, due to the large number of agreements in The results of our testing were satisfactory and we found the amount of place across numerous jurisdictions supplier rebates and discounts recognised to be acceptable.
within the Group, the complexity of transaction processing as well as supplier rebate periods frequently not being coterminous with the year end date, we consider that there is a risk of error.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 103 Independent auditors report continued THE RISK OUR RESPONSE Parent Company Low risk, high value Our procedures included: financial statements: The carrying amount of the Test of details: Comparing a sample of the investment and intercompany Valuation of Companys investments in receivables carrying value to the net assets of the relevant subsidiary investments and subsidiaries held at cost less included within the Group consolidation, to identify whether the net asset recoverability of impairment and intercompany value, being an approximation of the minimum recoverable amount, was intercompany receivables represent 94% in excess of their carrying amount: receivables 2017:99% of the Companys Assessing subsidiary net assets: For the relevant subsidiaries investment total assets.
holding companies, we compared the net assets of the relevant subsidiary Investments to the final net assets in the prior year audited financial statements.
Based 1,035million We do not consider the valuation of on the knowledge acquired during the audit of the consolidated Group, 2017:1,017 million these investments and recovery of including reporting received from component auditors for the underlying intercompany receivables to be at a Intercompany trading operations, we considered whether there were any events high risk of significant receivables indicating that the net assets would be materially different from the prior misstatement, or to be subject to a 10,035million year position: significant level of judgement.
2017:9,909 million However, due to their materiality in Test of details: Where the net assets of the relevant subsidiary were the context of the Company insufficient to support the carrying value we considered the performance financial statements as a whole, of the underlying investments held by the relevant subsidiary in order to this is considered to be the area assess whether there was an indication of impairment: which had the greatest effect on Our sector experience: In addition, for certain investments and our overall audit strategy and receivables, we evaluated the assumptions used in the applicable allocation of resources in impairment model, in particular those relating to forecast profit growth, planningand completing our using our knowledge and historic experience of the profitability of the Company audit.
underlying trading Group: and Benchmarking assumptions: We compared the assumptions in the applicable impairment model for the investment to externally derived data in relation to projected economic growth and discount rates.
Our results We found the assessment of the carrying value of investments and the recoverability of intercompany receivables to be acceptable.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN GROUP PROFIT GROUP OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT BEFORE TAX MATERIALITY Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was 1.5 billion 74.0 million setat74.0 million 2017: 65.0 million, determined with reference 2017: 1.6 billion 2017: 65.0 million to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of 1.5 billion 2017: 1.6 74 million billion, of which it represents 4.9% 2017: 4.2%.
Whole financial statements materiality 2017: 65.0 million Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 52.3 million 2017: 52.3 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets of which it represents 0.4% 2017: 0.5%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or 59 million Range of materiality uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 3.7 million at 28 components 1 million to 59 million 2017: 3.3 million, in addition to other identified misstatements 2017: 0.7 million that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
to 52.3 million Of the Groups 54 2017: 54 reporting components, we subjected Group profit before tax 3.7 million Group materiality 28 2017: 28 to full scope audits for Group purposes.
Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee The components within the scope of our work accounted for the 2017: 3.3 million percentages illustrated on the next page.
104 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The remaining 4% 2017: 4% of total Group revenue, 3% GROUP REVENUE 2017:3% of Group profit before tax and 3% 2017: 3% of % totalGroup assets is represented by 26 reporting components 2017:26 components, none of which individually represented 4% more than 0.6% 2017: 0.5% of any of total Group revenue, Groupprofit before tax or total Group assets.
For these residual Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level 4% Full scope for Group audit tore-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks purposes 2017 ofmaterial misstatement within these.
Residual components The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant 96% areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 1m to 59m 2017: 96% 0.7m to 52.3m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 25 of the 28 components 2017: 25 of 28 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the Parent GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX Company, was performed by the Group team.
% The Group team visited 8 2017: 13 component locations in Canada, China, France, Japan, Turkey, Spain, US and the 3% UK 2017: Australia, Brazil, China, Chile, France, Japan, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Portugal, South Africa, UAE, US and the UK Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 to assess the audit risk and strategy and direct the audit work of 3% Full scope for Group audit component auditors.
purposes 2017 Residual components Video and telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and all others that were not physically visited.
97% At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required 97% by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON GOING CONCERN GROUP TOTAL ASSETS We are required to report to you if: % we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation tothe directors statement in note A to the financial statements 3% onthe use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Full scope for Group audit Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least purposes 2018 3% Full scope for Group audit twelve months from the date of approval of the financial purposes 2017 statements: or Residual components the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 34 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
97% We have nothing to report in these respects.
97% Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 105 Independent auditors report continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES 5.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE We are required to report to you if: OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT The directors are responsible for the other information presented in we have identified material inconsistencies between the the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other the directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance understandable and provides the information necessary for conclusion thereon.
shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated theinformation therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with by us to the Audit Committee.
the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance otherinformation.
Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT Listing Rules for our review.
Based solely on our work on the other information: We have nothing to report in these respects.
we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: 6.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE in our opinion the information given in those reports for the OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, with the Companies Act 2006. in our opinion: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the received from branches not visited by us: or Companies Act 2006. the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the DISCLOSURES OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in LONGER-TERM VIABILITY agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention not made: or to in relation to: we have not received all the information and explanations we the directors confirmation within the viability statement on page require for our audit.
34 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal We have nothing to report in these respects.
risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
106 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout 7.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES ourteam and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES throughout the audit.
This included communication from the As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 101, the Groupto component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial identified at Group level, with a request to report on any indications statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair of potential existence of non-compliance with relevant laws and view: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue regulations irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to identified by the component team.
going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but ofnon-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities to do so.
In addition the directors are responsible for such internal as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, 8.
THE PURPOSE OF OUR AUDIT WORK AND TO whether due to fraud or error.
WHOM WE OWE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and Companys members those matters we are required to state to them to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, haveformed.
individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Anthony Sykes Senior Statutory Auditor IRREGULARITIES ABILITY TO DETECT We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from Chartered Accountants our sector experience, and through discussion with the directors and 15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL other management as required by auditing standards, and from 20 November 2018 inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence asnecessary.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in thespecific areas of compliance of business practices with the UKBribery Act, Employment Law, Health and Safety and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the nature of the Groupsactivities.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our workinrespect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors andother management and inspection of relevant regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures onthe related financial statement items.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2018 107
