FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 to the members of Computacenter plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the Financial Statements of Computacenter plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Company Balance Sheet and Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 2.
In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 19 May 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the four financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: Group Financial Statements as a whole 5.0 million 2017: 4.5 million 4.4 per cent 2017: 4.2 per cent of normalised profit before tax Coverage 99 per cent 2017: 93 per cent of Group profit before tax Key audit matters vs 2017 Recurring risks Professional Services and Managed Services contract accounting Technology Sourcing revenue cut-off Recoverability of Parent Companys investment in subsidiaries Parent Event driven New: The impact of uncertainties due to the UK exiting the European Union on our audit New: Valuation of FusionStorm intangible assets 2.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement When planning our audit we made an assessment of the relative significance of the key risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements initially without taking account of the effectiveness of controls implemented by the Group.
As part of our audit planning procedures, we presented and discussed our initial assessment of key risks to the Audit Committee and subsequently discussed changes to our assessment.
Our final risk map is shown below.
We identified five key audit matters that were expected to have the greatest effect on our audit.
Throughout our audit we continually reassess the significance of each of these key audit matters.
Due to events during the audit period we added two new key audit matters relating to: The impact of uncertainties due to the UK exiting the European Union on our audit: and Valuation of FusionStorm intangible assets Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial Statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in arriving at our audit opinion above together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and our findings from those procedures in order that the Companys members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
These matters were addressed, and our findings are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
109 Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc continued Professional Services Recoverability of Parent and Managed Services Companys investment in contract accounting Technology Sourcing subsidiaries Parent revenue recognition Valuation of FusionStorm Technology Sourcing intangible assets revenue cut-off Vendor management, Fraud risk from rebates and cost Management override management Presentation of of controls exceptional items and New consolidation tool adjusted profit Impairment of non-current assets Fraud risk from Tax positions and revenue recognition transfer pricing Upcoming standard disclosures IFRS 16 Deferred tax assets New financial statement disclosures IFRS 9 and 15 Bad debt exposure Segmental reporting Share option disclosure judgements and accounting Lower Likelihood of occurrence Higher Key audit matter Presumed fraud risk per auditing standards Other financial statement risk Risks impacted by the uncertainties due to the UK exiting the European Union The risk Our response The impact of uncertainties Unprecedented levels of Our procedures included: due to the UK exiting the uncertainty: European Union on our All audits assess and challenge the We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the consideration audit reasonableness of estimates, in of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning and performing our particular as described in Revenue audits.
Our procedures included: Professional Services and Managed Refer to page 81 Audit Services contract accounting and Our Brexit knowledge: We considered the Directors assessment of Committee Report.
the valuation of FusionStorm Brexit-related sources of risk for the Groups business and financial intangible assets below, and related resources compared with our own understanding of the risks.
We disclosures and the appropriateness considered the Directors plans to take action to mitigate the risks.
of the going concern basis of Sensitivity analysis: When addressing revenue Professional preparation of the Financial Services and Managed Services contract accounting and the Statements.
All of these depend on valuation of FusionStorm intangible assets and other areas that assessments of the future economic depend on forecasts, we compared the Directors analysis to our environment and the Groups future assessment of the full range of reasonably possible scenarios prospects and performance.
resulting from Brexit uncertainty and, where forecast cash flows are required to be discounted, considered adjustments to discount rates In addition, we are required to for the level of remaining uncertainty.
consider the other information Assessing transparency: As well as assessing individual disclosures presented in the Annual Report as part of our procedures on Revenue Professional Services and including the principal risks Managed Services contract accounting and the valuation of disclosure and the viability FusionStorm intangible assets we considered all of the Brexit related statement and to consider the disclosures together, including those in the Strategic Report, Directors statement that the Annual comparing the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Our findings understandable and provides the As reported under Revenue Professional Services and Managed information necessary for Services contract accounting and the valuation of FusionStorm shareholders to assess the Groups intangible assets, we found the resulting estimates to be mildly position and performance, business cautious for Professional Services and Managed Services contract model and strategy.
accounting, and balanced for valuation of FusionStorm intangible assets.
We also found the related disclosures of Revenue Brexit is one of the most significant Professional Services and Managed Services contract accounting and economic events for the UK and at the valuation of FusionStorm intangible assets, and disclosures in the date of this report its effects are relation to going concern to be proportionate.
However, no audit subject to unprecedented levels of should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible uncertainty of outcomes, with the future implications for a company and this is particularly the case full range of possible effects in relation to Brexit.
110 Lower Magnitude of potential impact Higher FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 The risk Our response Professional Services and Subjective estimate: Contracts were selected for substantive audit procedures based on Managed Services contract The contractual arrangements that qualitative factors, such as commercial complexity, and quantitative accounting underpin the measurement and factors, such as financial significance and profitability that we Revenue 1,175.0 million: recognition of revenue by the Group considered to be indicative of risk.
Our audit testing for the contracts 2017: 1,157.2 million can be complex, with significant selected included the following: estimation of future financial Onerous contract performance in fulfilment of the Our sector expertise: Assessing whether the revenue recognition provisions 16.4 million: contract required.
Key sources of methodology applied was consistent with accounting standards.
2017: 8.2 million estimation uncertainty include: Our sector expertise: Inspecting and challenging accounting papers prepared by the Group to understand the support provided in respect assessment of stage of of key contract estimates and onerous contract provisions.
Refer to page 79 Audit completion by reference to Tests of detail: Inspecting the detailed contractual terms to identify Committee Report, pages estimated costs to complete a the service obligations and inspecting customer sign-off on 124 to 125 accounting contract.
These significant acceptance of the sample of deliverables to determine the policy and pages 131 and estimates include total contract appropriateness of revenue recognition.
costs taking into consideration Tests of detail: Consider the existence of contradictory evidence for contract risks, technical risks, future forecast costs including the risks and estimates within these and other delivery assumptions: forecasts by obtaining evidence through discussions with key and management personnel, relevant correspondence with customers where an onerous contract and delivery performance to date.
provision is required, estimation Tests of detail: Inspecting relevant correspondence with customers is required in assessing the level and third parties, in instances where contractual variations and of provision, including estimated claims have arisen on selected contracts, to inform our assessment costs to complete and total of the revenue and costs recorded up to the balance sheet date on contract revenue, taking into those contracts.
account performance and Historical comparisons: Comparing the previous contract forecasts delivery risks to the end of the to historical and in year performance to assess the historical contract, contractual obligations, accuracy of the forecasts for a sample of completed projects in the extension periods and customer year and specifically for those contracts where an onerous contract negotiations.
Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups The effect of these matters is that, disclosure about estimation uncertainty regarding Managed and as part of our risk assessment, we Professional Services revenue and onerous contract provisions.
determined that the revenue recognition and the value of the Our findings onerous contract provisions has a We found the resulting estimates of revenue to be mildly cautious high degree of estimation 2017 finding: mildly cautious.
In addition, we found the estimates uncertainty, with a potential range of in relation to onerous contract provisions to be mildly cautious reasonable outcomes greater than 2017 finding: mildly cautious.
We found the Groups disclosures to our materiality for the Financial be proportionate in their description of the estimation uncertainty Statements as a whole.
The Financial regarding Managed and Professional Services revenue and onerous Statements note 3 disclose the contract provisions.
sensitivity estimated by the Group.
Revenue Technology 2018 2019 sales: Our procedures included: Sourcing revenue cut-off Technology Sourcing revenue Control operation: Testing automated controls that are designed 3,177.6 million: 2017: includes revenues from numerous to ensure that Technology Sourcing revenue transactions are 2,636.2 million product groups each sold with recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
varying contractual terms and Tests of details: Inspecting proof of delivery or signed buy and store conditions that in turn impact the agreements for a sample of orders selected close to year end in order Refer to page 79 Audit point in time at which all delivery to assess whether the policy had been correctly applied to recognise Committee Report, page obligations, and therefore the revenue in the appropriate period.
This sample is selected on the 124 accounting policy.
transfer of control has been fulfilled, basis of a statistical sample methodology combined with items over and hence revenue is recognised.
Whilst there is little judgement Tests of details: Inspecting sales invoices and proof of delivery for a required in identifying the sample of credit notes raised subsequent to the year end in order to appropriate accounting policy, the assess whether Technology Sourcing revenue related to a valid sale volume of orders close to year end and was recognised in the correct period, and whether there were gives rise to some risk that revenue any systemic issues around revenue cut-off.
is recognised too early or late.
Our findings Our testing over Technology Sourcing revenue cut-off found uncorrected errors, for which we have reported an audit difference, which was not considered to be material to the accounts 2017: no errors found.
111 Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc continued Valuation of FusionStorm Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: intangible assets On 1 October 2018 Computacenter Our valuation expertise: Use of our own valuation specialists to 66.2 million: 2017: nil plc acquired the entire Share Capital assess the appropriateness of the valuation methodology applied.
of FusionStorm for consideration of Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the Groups assumptions to $90 million.
externally derived data in relation to key inputs such as revenue growth rates, customer attrition rate and discount rates.
Refer to page 79 Audit We identified the valuation of Historical comparisons: Challenging the reasonableness of the Committee Report, page FusionStorm intangibles as a risk assumptions, particularly revenue growth rates and customer 127 accounting policy and because of the inherent complexity attrition rates by assessing the historical accuracy of FusionStorms pages 143 and 157 financial due to the judgements and ability to forecast accurately and comparing to previous disclosures.
management in assessing the fair Assessing transparency: Assess whether the Groups disclosures value of the identified intangibles, relating to the valuation of acquired intangibles are appropriately and because of the size of the comprehensive.
Our findings The effect of these matters is that, We found the resulting valuation of FusionStorm intangible assets to as part of our risk assessment, we be balanced.
We found the Groups disclosures to be proportionate in determined that the valuation of their description of the forecast uncertainty regarding valuation of intangible assets has a high degree FusionStorm intangible assets.
of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole.
Recoverability of Parent Low risk, high value: Our procedures included: Companys investment in The carrying amount of the Parent Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of material subsidiaries Companys investments in investments with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheets to 319.5 million: 2017: 206.8 subsidiaries represents 74 per cent identify whether their net assets, being an approximation of their million 2017: 47 per cent of the Companys minimum recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying total assets.
Their recoverability is amount and assessing whether those subsidiaries have historically not at a high risk of significant been profit-making.
misstatement or subject to Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed by the Refer to page 80 Audit significant judgement.
However, due subsidiary audit teams of those subsidiaries where audits are Committee Report, page to their materiality in the context of performed and considering the results of that work on those 166 accounting policy the Parent Company Financial subsidiaries profits and net assets.
and page 168 financial Statements, this is considered to be Our sector experience: For the investments where the carrying disclosures.
the area that had the greatest effect amount exceeded the net asset value, comparing the carrying on our overall Parent Company audit.
amount of the investment with the expected value of the business based upon a discounted cash flow model.
Our findings We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be balanced 2017: balanced.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set at 5.0 million 2017: 4.5 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of 113.8 million 2017: 106.0 million, normalised to exclude this years exceptional items as disclosed in note 6, of which it represents 4.4 per cent 2017: 4.2 per cent.
In addition, we applied materiality of 0.1 million 2017: 0.1 million to related party transactions for which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole could be reasonably expected to influence the Companys assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality for the Parent Company Financial Statements as a whole was set at 4.5 million 2017: 4.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Company total assets, of which it represents 1.0 per cent 2017: 0.9 per cent.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.5 million 2017: 0.5 million in respect of misstatements which relate solely to reclassifications within the balance sheet, and 0.25 million 2017: 0.10 million in respect of all other misstatements, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group operates a Shared Service Centre SSC in Budapest, Hungary, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the three reporting components subject to full scope audit and therefore it is not a separate reporting component.
Audit procedures were performed at the SSC which focus on the testing of trade receivables and trade payables transaction processing.
112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Of the Groups 17 2017: 16 reporting components, we subjected four 2017: four to full scope audits for Group purposes and one 2017: none to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter was not individually financially significant enough to require a full scope audit for Group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
For the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The remaining 3 per cent of total Group revenue, 1 per cent of Group profit before tax and 3 per cent of total Group assets is represented by 12 reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 1 per cent of any of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the components materialities, which ranged from 2.0 million to 4.5 million 2017: 2.0 million to 4.0 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on three of the five components 2017: two of the four components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the Parent Company, was performed by the Group team.
For those items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax, the component teams performed procedures on items relating to their components.
The Group team performed procedures on the remaining excluded items.
The Group team visited the three 2017: two overseas component locations in France, Germany and the US, in addition to the Shared Service Centre in Hungary 2017: France, Germany and Shared Service Centre in Hungary to assess the audit risk and strategy.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude Group materiality Group revenue exceptional items 5.0 million 2017: 4.5 million 113.8 million 2017: 106.0 million 91 5.0 million 2017: 4.5 million 6 Whole financial statements materiality 97 4.5 million 2017: 2.0 million to 4.0 million Range of materiality at five components 2.0 million to 4.5 million 97% 2017: 97% 0.25 million 2017: 0.10 million Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude exceptional items Group materiality Group profit before tax Group total assets Group profit before exceptional items and tax 95 85 93 4 1 93 97 91 10 99% 95% 94% 2017: 93% 2017: 97% 2017: 91% Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 Speci ed risk-focused audit procedures 2018 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 Residual components 113 Independent auditors report to the members of Computacenter plc continued 4.
We have nothing to report on going Based on this work, we are required to report Disclosures of principal risks and longerconcern to you if: term viability The Directors have prepared the Financial Based on the knowledge we acquired during Statements on the going concern basis as we have anything material to add or draw our financial statements audit, we have they do not intend to liquidate the Company attention to in relation to the Directors nothing material to add or draw attention to or the Group or to cease their operations, and statement on page 95 of this Annual in relation to: as they have concluded that the Companys Report on the use of the going concern and the Groups financial position means that basis of accounting with no material the Directors confirmation within the this is realistic.
They have also concluded that uncertainties that may cast significant Viability Statement on page 105 that they there are no material uncertainties that doubt over the Group and Companys use have carried out a robust assessment of could have cast significant doubt over their of that basis for a period of at least twelve the principal risks facing the Group, ability to continue as a going concern for months from the date of approval of the including those that would threaten its at least a year from the date of approval of Financial Statements: or business model, future performance, the Financial Statements the going the related statement under the Listing solvency and liquidity: concern period.
Rules set out on page 107 is materially the Principal Risks disclosures describing inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
these risks and explaining how they are Our responsibility is to conclude on the being managed and mitigated: and appropriateness of the Directors We have nothing to report in these respects, the Directors explanation in the viability conclusions and, had there been a material and we did not identify going concern as a statement of how they have assessed the uncertainty related to going concern, to key audit matter.
prospects of the Group, over what period make reference to that in this audit report.
they have done so and why they However, as we cannot predict all future 5.
We have nothing to report on the other considered that period to be appropriate, events or conditions and as subsequent information in the Annual Report and their statement as to whether they events may result in outcomes that are The Directors are responsible for the other have a reasonable expectation that the inconsistent with judgements that were information presented in the Annual Report Group will be able to continue in operation reasonable at the time they were made, together with the Financial Statements.
Our and meet its liabilities as they fall due the absence of reference to a material opinion on the Financial Statements does not over the period of their assessment, uncertainty in this auditors report is not cover the other information and, accordingly, including any related disclosures drawing a guarantee that the Group and the we do not express an audit opinion or, except attention to any necessary qualifications Company will continue in operation.
as explicitly stated below, any form of or assumptions.
In our evaluation of the Directors Under the Listing Rules we are required to conclusions, we considered the inherent Our responsibility is to read the other review the viability statement.
We have risks to the Companys business model and information and, in doing so, consider nothing to report in this respect.
analysed how those risks might affect the whether, based on our Financial Statements Companys financial resources or ability to audit work, the information therein is Our work is limited to assessing these continue operations over the going concern materially misstated or inconsistent with the matters in the context of only the knowledge period.
The risks that we considered most Financial Statements or our audit knowledge.
acquired during our Financial Statements likely to adversely affect the Companys Based solely on that work we have not audit.
As we cannot predict all future events available financial resources over this identified material misstatements in the or conditions and as subsequent events may period were: other information.
result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time A contraction in technology sourcing Strategic Report and Directors Report they were made, the absence of anything to and service margins Based solely on our work on the other report on these statements is not a The impact of a significant business information: guarantee as to the Groups and Companys continuity issues affecting a number we have not identified material longer-term viability.
of the Companys key customers misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: Corporate governance disclosures As these were risks that could potentially in our opinion the information given in We are required to report to you if: cast significant doubt on the Companys those reports for the financial year is we have identified material ability to continue as a going concern, we consistent with the Financial Statements: inconsistencies between the knowledge considered sensitivities over the level of and we acquired during our Financial available financial resources indicated by in our opinion those reports have been Statements audit and the Directors the Companys financial forecasts taking prepared in accordance with the statement that they consider that the account of reasonably possible but not Companies Act 2006.
Annual Report and Financial Statements unrealistic adverse effects that could arise taken as a whole is fair, balanced and from these risks individually and collectively Directors Remuneration Report understandable and provides the and evaluated the achievability of the In our opinion the part of the Directors information necessary for shareholders actions the Directors consider they would Remuneration Report to be audited has been to assess the Groups position and take to improve the position should the risks properly prepared in accordance with the performance, business model and materialise.
We also considered less Companies Act 2006. strategy: or predictable but realistic second order the section of the Annual Report impacts, such as Brexit.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 We are required to report to you if the fraud, other irregularities or error and are actual or suspected non-compliance Corporate Governance Statement does not considered material if, individually or in Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, properly disclose a departure from the aggregate, they could reasonably be there is an unavoidable risk that we may not eleven provisions of the UK Corporate expected to influence the economic have detected some material Governance Code specified by the Listing decisions of users taken on the basis of the misstatements in the Financial Statements, Rules for our review.
even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with We have nothing to report in these respects.
A fuller description of our responsibilities auditing standards.
For example, the further is provided on the FRCs website at removed non-compliance with laws and 6.
We have nothing to report on the other www.
regulations irregularities is from the events matters on which we are required to report and transactions reflected in the Financial by exception Irregularities ability to detect Statements, the less likely the inherently Under the Companies Act 2006, we are We identified areas of laws and regulations limited procedures required by auditing required to report to you if, in our opinion: that could reasonably be expected to have a standards would identify it.
In addition, as material effect on the Financial Statements with any audit, there remained a higher risk adequate accounting records have not from our general commercial and sector of non-detection of irregularities, as these been kept by the Parent Company, or experience, through discussion with the may involve collusion, forgery, intentional returns adequate for our audit have not Directors and other management as omissions, misrepresentations, or the been received from branches not visited required by auditing standards, and from override of internal controls.
We are not by us: or inspection of the Groups regulatory and responsible for preventing non-compliance the Parent Company financial statements legal correspondence and discussed with and cannot be expected to detect nonand the part of the Directors the Directors and other management the compliance with all laws and regulations.
Remuneration Report to be audited are policies and procedures regarding not in agreement with the accounting compliance with laws and regulations.
The purpose of our audit work and to records and returns: or We communicated identified laws and whom we owe our responsibilities certain disclosures of Directors regulations throughout our team and This report is made solely to the Companys remuneration specified by law are not remained alert to any indications of members, as a body, in accordance with made: or non-compliance throughout the audit.
This Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act we have not received all the information included communication from the Group to 2006 and the terms of our engagement by and explanations we require for our audit.
component audit teams of relevant laws and the Company.
Our audit work has been regulations identified at Group level.
undertaken so that we might state to the We have nothing to report in these respects.
Companys members those matters we are The potential effect of these laws and required to state to them in an auditors 7.
Respective responsibilities regulations on the Financial Statements report, and the further matters we are Directors responsibilities varies considerably.
required to state to them in accordance with As explained more fully in their statement set the terms agreed with the Company, and for out on page 108, the Directors are Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and no other purpose.
To the fullest extent responsible for: the preparation of the regulations that directly affect the Financial permitted by law, we do not accept or Financial Statements including being Statements including financial reporting assume responsibility to anyone other than satisfied that they give a true and fair view: legislation including related companies the Company and the Companys members, such internal control as they determine is legislation, distributable profits legislation, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, necessary to enable the preparation of and taxation legislation and we assessed the or for the opinions we have formed.
Financial Statements that are free from extent of compliance with these laws and material misstatement, whether due to regulations as part of our procedures on the Tudor Aw Senior Statutory Auditor fraud or error: assessing the Group and related Financial Statement items.
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Parent Companys ability to continue as a Statutory Auditor going concern, disclosing, as applicable, Secondly, the Group is subject to many other Chartered Accountants matters related to going concern: and using laws and regulations where the 15 Canada Square the going concern basis of accounting unless consequences of non-compliance could have London they either intend to liquidate the Group or a material effect on amounts or disclosures E14 5GL the Parent Company or to cease operations, in the Financial Statements, for instance 11 March 2019 or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Groups licence to operate.
Auditors responsibilities We identified the following areas as those Our objectives are to obtain reasonable most likely to have such an effect: health and assurance about whether the Financial safety, anti-bribery, employment law, and Statements as a whole are free from certain aspects of company legislation material misstatement, whether due to recognising the nature of the Groups fraud or other irregularities see below, or activities.
Auditing standards limit the error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors required audit procedures to identify report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level non-compliance with these laws and of assurance, but does not guarantee that an regulations to enquiry of the Directors and audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK other management and inspection of will always detect a material misstatement regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
Misstatements can arise from These limited procedures did not identify 115
