ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 110 Independent auditors report to the members of ContourGlobal plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: ContourGlobal plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31st December 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position and the Company balance sheet as at 31st December 2018: the consolidated statement of income and other comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash flows, and the consolidated statement of changes in equity and Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Ourresponsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section ofour report.
Webelieve that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled ourother ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 4.33 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1st January 2018 to 31st December 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: $15.0 million 2017: $12.5 million, based on 2.5% of Adjusted EBITDA.
Overall Company materiality: $16.5 million 2017: $8.0 million, based on 1% of total assets 2017: 1% of total assets, capped at 95% of Group materiality.
Materiality We conducted our audit work over 12 components located in ten countries.
Seven components were subject to an audit of their complete financial information due to their size.
Specific audit procedures were performed on certain balances and transactions in respect of five components.
Audit scope We visited component auditors in five countries, covering all of the financially significant components and two further components The key audit matters are: Key audit Accounting for business combinations and power purchase agreements PPA in the year of acquisition matters including valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed Group.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and financial and contract assets Group.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition and IFRS 15 transition Group.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Inparticular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 111 Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to breaches of health and safety regulations, environmental regulations and unethical and prohibited business practices, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules and UK and international tax legislation.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities forfraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal riskswere related to posting inappropriate journal entries and or management bias in accounting estimates that would result in the overstatement of Adjusted EBITDA.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that theycould include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors included: Discussions with management, internal legal counsel and enquiries of the Groups legal advisors, including consideration of known orsuspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud: Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates: Identifying and testing journal entries that increase Adjusted EBITDA, in particular journal entries posted with unusual account combinations or posted by members of senior management with a financial reporting oversight role: Incorporating elements of unpredictability into the audit procedures performed: Reviewing the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA in the Annual Report, including the clear disclosure of the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to statutory profit and ensuring that sufficient prominence was given to statutory profit measures in the Annual Report: and Reviewing the disclosures in the Annual Report and financial statements against the specific legal requirements and involving technical experts to help us assess the compliance of disclosures against relevant legislation, for example within the Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Report.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, asfraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, andwedo not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for business combinations and power purchase During the year, the Group acquired the shares of new asset agreements PPA in the year of acquisition including portfolios in Spain for consideration of $1,141.0 million and Italy valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and Romania combined for $27.7 million.
notes2.3, 2.4, 3.1, 4.5, 4.10, 4.11 and 4.25 We read the sale and purchase agreements SPAs associated The Group acquired new power plant portfolios in Spain, Italy with the acquisitions in Spain, Italy and Romania, and performed and Romania.
Accounting for acquisitions can be complex, with audit procedures over both the identification of assets acquired judgement required in both the identification of assets acquired, including any potential intangible assets and the valuation including any intangible assets, and the valuation of assets ofassets acquired and liabilities assumed.
acquired and liabilities assumed in accordance with IFRS 3 We considered the completeness of the intangible assets Business Combinations.
identified by management with reference to the specific legal The calculation of fair value is subjective due to the inherent and contractual rights associated with the SPAs.
From our review uncertainty involved in the valuation of assets and liabilities, and and assessment of the SPAs, and audit procedures performed this requires the application of judgment by management and over the valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, technical expertise.
In particular the method of valuation, future wefound that the judgments made surrounding the identification forecasts and underlying assumptions all have a material impact of assets and liabilities acquired were appropriate.
on the valuation of assets and liabilities, including the value of We involved our specialists in our audit of the valuation of property, plant and equipment which typically represents the assetsacquired and liabilities assumed.
Our work included most significant asset acquired.
assessment of the appropriateness of the valuation models Under IFRS 3, an intangible asset must be recognised on an used, assessment of the discount rate used in the models by acquisition where it arises from contractual or legal rights reference to comparable assets, and the evaluation of future acquired and is separable from the business.
Due to the cash flow forecasts for each of the power plants acquired.
We complex nature of the acquisition agreements and related found that the valuation models used, judgments and estimates power purchase agreements there is often judgment in made surrounding the valuation of assets and liabilities acquired determining the legal and contractual rights associated with the to be reasonable.
PPA and therefore there is a risk that intangible assets acquired may not be recognised.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 112 Independent auditors report to the members of ContourGlobal plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Following acquisition, the Groups power plants sell their We assessed the likelihood of a liability arising from the earn outputeither under Power Purchase Agreements PPAs, outpayments as stipulated in the Spanish SPA.
This involves otherlong-term arrangements or in accordance with local estimation by management as the earn out payments are regulations.
Accounting for these arrangements may be complex calculated by reference to uncertain future events.
We found with a number of judgments required to assess the accounting theestimates made by management in the calculation of the standards applicable to each agreement.
These include whether earn out liability were reasonable.
the arrangement contains a lease under IFRIC 4 Determining We assessed the completeness of disclosures for each whether an arrangement contains a lease or constitutes acquisition against the requirements of the relevant accounting aservice concession to be accounted for under IFRIC 12 standards and found that there were no omissions of Service concession arrangements.
These judgments impact the disclosures.
measurement and classification of assets, the basis for revenue Furthermore, we have evaluated managements assessment recognition under the arrangements, and the related disclosures ofthe statutory regulation that governs the sale of energy from in the financial statements.
Once the basis of accounting has solar assets in Spain in place of a PPA and their assessment been initially determined, this does not changeover time.
ofthe PPAs in Italy and Romania including tying back key terms to the contract.
Management have reached the conclusion that there are no arrangements features within the PPAs or Spanish regulations that indicate that these either contain a lease or represent a service concession arrangement.
From our review of the new PPAs in the year, our understanding of the regulations in Spain, and other audit evidence obtained, we found that the judgments made in determining the appropriate accounting framework for the PPA regulation were reasonable, and the associated measurement and classification of related balances and disclosures in the financial statements were consistent withthe requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and financial We evaluated impairment triggers identified by management and contract assets notes 2.3, 2.4, 4.11 and 4.12 intheir assessment by reviewing performance data by power plant, considering significant variances in performance against The Group has $3.25 billion of property, plant and equipment, forecasts, and from meetings we held with divisional finance the majority of which relates to power plant assets, and directors to discuss individual plant performance.
We have also $0.5billion of financial and contract assets, the majority considered other information gathered during the course of our ofwhichrelate to concession arrangements.
audits of components and assessed whether there are any other Impairment assessments of these assets requires significant indicators of impairment.
No impairment triggers other than the judgment and there is the risk that potential impairment triggers Brazilian Wind power plants already noted by management were are not identified by management and, in the event that there identified from our assessment.
isan impairment trigger, there is a risk that the calculation of We performed audit procedures over the value in use therecoverable amount of the asset is incorrect and therefore calculations prepared by management for the Brazilian wind the value of the assets may be misstated.
We used PwC valuation specialists to assess In the event that an impairment trigger is identified, the themethodology applied in the valuation and the discount rate recoverable value of property, plant and equipment is assessed used in the valuation.
We benchmarked the discount rate to by a value in use calculation which is based on future cash flow comparable assets and considered the underlying assumptions forecasts and related valuation assumptions and for financial based on our knowledge of the Group and its industry.
We and contract assets, by assessing expected credit losses.
tested the accuracy of managements forecasting by reference Forecasts and assumptions used in value in use calculations are to the accuracy of historical forecasts compared to actual cash inherently judgemental and therefore may give rise to increased flows.
We also validated key assumptions related to future risk of misstatement.
capacity by reference to resource forecasts, board approved forecasts specific to wind assets and comparability of expected Impairment indicators were identified in the current year for the wind conditions per forecasts to actual wind conditions during Brazilian wind power plants following lower than expected wind the year.
conditions and technical performance issues.
These were tested for impairment using value in use calculations.
No impairments We tested managements sensitivity analysis to ensure inthe underlying carrying value of the assets were identified.
appropriate judgement had been applied.
No impairment indicators were identified in respect of the Based on our audit procedures performed we found the financial and contract assets.
methodology and assumptions used in the calculation of value in use for the Brazilian wind power plants and the conclusion that no impairment charge was required, were reasonable.
We also assessed the disclosures around the impairment assessments completed and the associated sensitivity analyses and have found these to be appropriate.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 113 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Risk of fraud in revenue recognition and IFRS 15 transition We assessed the detailed analysis prepared by management in notes 2.1, 2.3, 2.4 and 4.2 relation to the accounting for each power purchase agreement at inception as outlined above, and, where appropriate, when a In addition to the judgements regarding the basis of accounting substantive change to the PPA is made.
We note that there were for revenues under the different Power Purchase Agreements no significant changes to existing PPAs during the year.
PPAs, there is a risk that revenues recognised in the financial In order to test the accuracy and occurrence of revenue from period may be misstated due to fraud or error.
power sales, we obtained the periodic invoices for capacity The majority of revenues earned are from power sales andenergy payments for each component and traced these comprising both capacity payments and energy payments.
For the largest component These are calculated based on pre-determined criteria set out whichrepresents approximately 30.6% of Group revenue, inthe PPAs, which typically include fixed contracted capacities wealso reperformed the calculation of revenue based on as well as contracted prices.
These revenues are not considered theformulae set out in the contract.
to give rise to heightened risk as there is little judgement involved in the calculation of these revenues.
In respect of renewables plants where PPAs include revenues linked to uncertain future performance obligations for example However in some PPAs a portion of revenue is inherently more capacity payments which are dependent on future levels of judgemental, for example capacity payments in relation to power generation, we have tested revenue to ensure that certain renewable plants which in some cases include specific where revenues are recognized there is not a reasonable performance obligations set out in the PPA such as minimum foreseeable chance of revenues being reversed in future supply agreements.
The failure to meet these obligations can periods as a result of a failure to meet future performance give rise to a reduction in revenues earned under the PPA.
While there is inherent uncertainty in future levels During the year, the Group have adopted IFRS 15, Revenue ofpower generation for renewable assets, we found that fromContracts with Customers, from 1st January 2018.
IFRS 15 Managements estimates appeared reasonable and consistent introduced a five-step model to be applied to all contracts with with historical performance of the associated assets.
The Group have followed the modified retrospective We also assessed journal entries posted to revenue accounts approach in application of the new standard.
To determine the toidentify any unusual or irregular items, and where such items impact of IFRS 15 on the Group, management grouped power were identified we performed specific tests of detail to validate purchase agreements with similar contractual terms, and the appropriateness of the journal.
performed a detailed revenue accounting assessment for In respect of IFRS 15, we have performed a detailed review eachgroup.
This requires management to exercise judgement, in particular in the identification of separate performance ofmanagements process, involving our own accounting obligations.
specialists, including specific consideration of managements judgements surrounding the identification of performance The impact of IFRS 15 did not have a material impact on obligations and estimates used in the calculation of transaction profitability of the Group in 2018. adjustments, for example the appropriate rate to calculate The largest impacts were noted in relation to the service theinterest element of the financing component of service concession contracts in Senegal, Togo and Rwanda that are concession arrangements.
We found that the principles behind accounted for under IFRIC 12.
For these contracts, a number the adjustments made as a result of adopting IFRS 15, including ofdistinct performance obligations were noted, including for associated judgements and estimates, were appropriate.
On the financing component of these For the in scope overseas components impacted by changes service concession contracts, IFRS 15 requires the calculation identified from the IFRS 15 transition Spain, Bulgaria, Senegal, ofthe interest element to be based on the financing rate Togo and Rwanda we have performed detailed audit testing thatcould have been obtained locally at the time of asset over the transition adjustments and found these to be construction, asopposed to the incremental rate of the contract accuratelycalculated.
Management generated an estimate of the rateby reference to the last USD bonds issued by the We also assessed the disclosures included in the financial local government in these countries.
As a result of this change, statement in respect of the adoption of IFRS 15 and found these therewas a significant reduction in the value of the financial to be appropriate.
andcontract assets in the opening balance sheet at 1st January 2018 for the related concession arrangements.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 114 Independent auditors report to the members of ContourGlobal plc continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry inwhich they operate.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of multiple reporting components, comprising the Groups operating locations including operating and related financing entities and other centralised functions.
The Groups reporting components vary significantly in size and we identified seven components that, in our view, required an audit oftheir complete financial information due to specific risk criteria and or their size and contribution to the Group.
Specific risk based audit procedures were performed at five further reporting components, based on the contribution of each to specific financial statement line items.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those entities to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Group engagement team visited the four largest components in three countries and two further full scope components.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach and any issues arising from our work, as well as meeting local management.
For all components, we received detailed reports on the findings of their audit work and held a number of calls withthe component teams before, during and after the completion of their work.
We also reviewed the working papers of all full scopecomponent teams at the year end.
The Group consolidation, including the consolidated financial statement disclosures, and certain centrally managed functions and balances were audited at the head office by the Group audit engagement team.
The Company is principally a holding company and there are no branches or other locations to be considered when scoping the audit.
As a single entity, one financial statement line item, being Cash at bank and in hand, was in scope for the Group audit.
Otherwise, theCompany is audited on a stand-alone basis and hence testing has been performed on all material financial statement line items.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality $15.0 million 2017: $12.5 million.
How we determined it 2.5% of Adjusted EBITDA.
1% of total assets 2017: 1% of total assets, cappedat95% of Group materiality.
Rationale for benchmark We applied Adjusted EBITDA as the benchmark We believe that total assets is an appropriate applied formateriality and we consider that this is the key benchmark for the Company as this entity profit based measure used by management in isprincipally a holding company.
bothassessing the performance of the business andreporting performance of the business to stakeholders.
Management use this measure as itallows the underlying profitability of the Group's core business activities, including the contribution from associates, to be assessed year on year.
Iteliminates balances related to the initial acquisition of assets which are not directly related to ongoing performance of the assets and certain other items which give rise to fluctuations in results which are notdirectly linked to the performance of the asset.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
Therangeof materiality allocated across components was between $0.75 million and $11.0 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $750,000 Groupaudit 2017: $500,000 and $750,000 Company audit 2017: $500,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, inour view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 115 Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
ordraw attention to in respect of the directors statement in However, because not all future events or conditions can thefinancial statements about whether the directors considered bepredicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting Groupsand Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
inpreparing the financial statements and the directors Forexample, the terms on which the United Kingdom may identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and withdraw from the European Union are not clear, and it is difficult theCompanys ability to continue as a going concern over to evaluate all of the potential implications on the Groups trade, aperiod of at least twelve months from the date of approval customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
toGoing Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, anyform of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement ofthis other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31st December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, wedid not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity ofthe Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 74 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 67 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period oftheir assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of theprincipal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially lessin scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 116 Independent auditors report to the members of ContourGlobal plc continued Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 107, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained inthecourse of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 82 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 107, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as agoing concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless thedirectors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a highlevel of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
ContourGlobal plc Annual Report 2018 117 Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment We were appointed by the directors on 13th December 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 2 years, covering the years ended 31st December 2017 to31st December 2018.
Matthew Hall Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 4th April 2019
