Independent auditors report to the members of ConvaTec Group Plc Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion: the Financial Statements of ConvaTec Group Plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise: the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and Company Balance Sheet: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: and the related Notes 1 to 29 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes 1 to 9 of the Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Revenue Recognition focusing on whether sales are valid in certain US and UK components, with increased risk in the recording of revenue for sales and or shipments that either did not occur, or did not occur at the level recorded by management, or for which the risks and rewards have not passed to the customer.
Taxation focusing on the recognition of deferred tax assets in a US component and the related impact on taxation charge and balance sheet amounts.
Parent Company investments focusing on the recoverability of the Parent Companys investment in its subsidiaries.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group Financial Statements was $12.3 million.
Materiality was determined on the basis of statutory profit before tax PBT, adjusted for costs of the pre-IPO share-based payment schemes.
Our materiality represents 5.9% of the adjusted pre-tax profit measure.
Scoping We performed full scope audit procedures on twelve legal entities covering eight countries.
In addition, we have performed specified audit procedures in ten legal entities across eight countries.
Together, these accounted for 81% of revenue, 88% of profit before tax and 79% of net assets.
Significant Last year we identified two key audit matters which related to revenue recognition and taxation.
In the current year these changes in our matters were further refined to revenue recognition focusing on whether sales are valid in certain US and UK components approach and deferred tax asset recognition in a US component.
In addition, we have identified a new key audit matter relating to the recoverability of the Parent Companys investments in its subsidiaries.
This was driven by the October 2018 trading update following which the ConvaTec Group Plc share price fell substantially and subsequently continued to trade at the lower level.
124 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the Directors statement in Note 3 to the Financial Statements about whether they considered nothing material to report, add it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any or draw attention to in respect material uncertainties to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least of these matters.
twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the nothing material to report, add knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the or draw attention to in respect Directors assessment of the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are of these matters.
required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 36 to 43 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 75 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on pages 44 to 45 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
125 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of ConvaTec Group Plc continued Revenue recognition Key audit matter ISAs UK require that, as part of our overall response to the risk of fraud, when identifying and assessing the risks of material description misstatement due to fraud, we evaluate which types of revenue or revenue transactions might give rise to potential fraud risks.
We have specifically focused this risk to whether sales are valid in certain US and UK components with increased risk in the area of recording revenue for sales and or shipments that either did not occur, or did not occur at the level recorded by management, or for which the risks and rewards have not passed to the customer.
The risk is higher in these US and UK components based on the amount of revenue generated and the level of complexity in recognising the revenue relative to other Group components.
Pressures to meet stakeholder expectations following the trading update provided to the market on 15 October 2018 could provide incentives to record revenues where the performance obligations have not been satisfied and therefore we consider this to be a key audit matter.
The associated disclosure by franchise and geographical region is included within Note 5.
The Audit Committee has included their assessment of this risk on page 94.
For specific detail on the Groups accounting policy, please see Note 3 How the scope In response to the pressure identified in the key audit matter description above, we performed a risk assessment across the of our audit Group to identify specific areas of risk, focusing our testing accordingly.
responded to the key audit matter Our audit response consisted of several procedures including those summarised below.
The specific combination of procedures performed varied by location.
We performed walkthroughs of the revenue cycle at full scope components to gain an understanding of when the revenue should be recognised, to map out the relevant controls and the end to end processes in place.
We have assessed the design and implementation of these controls.
We made enquiries of local finance management, including Finance Directors, on movements in the revenue balance and have considered their responses against the detailed testing performed to determine whether the information corroborates the movements identified.
We performed detailed transaction testing on a sample basis, agreeing sales through to invoice, final sales contracts or purchase orders.
We compared invoice prices to Company price lists on a sample basis to validate levels of discounting, agreeing the net revenue amount recorded by management to underlying accounting records and remittance.
We performed analytical reviews and utilised our analytics tools in certain components to identify any unusual sales trends and obtained an explanation for any such movements.
We obtained confirmations from customers in certain locations to support the assertion that revenue has been appropriately recognised.
We also reviewed a sample of distributor contracts to assess the terms of sale and to support recalculation of rebates and chargebacks associated with the revenue.
We held interviews with a selection of sales personnel to determine the existence of any side agreements or unusual arrangements which may impact when revenue can be recognised.
We held quarterly review calls with franchise and geographic market leaders to identify changes in customer demand and new product introductions that might impact sales patterns.
The procedures performed allowed us to gain a thorough understanding of the revenue cycle with a variety of procedures performed to minimise the risk associated to potential fraud.
Key observations We were satisfied that the key assumptions used in the application of revenue recognition have been applied appropriately.
We noted no instances above our reporting threshold to the Audit Committee of inappropriate revenue recognition arising from our testing.
126 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Taxation Key audit matter There is management judgement in the recognition of deferred tax assets DTAs in a US component, as the recognition of description these assets will be based on managements assessment of their recoverability.
This is further complicated by the fact that the Group trades across multiple tax jurisdictions, which makes managements judgements subject to challenge by various local tax authorities.
Total recognised DTAs at 31 December 2018 were $22.9 million 2017: $9.6 million.
At 31 December 2018 management assessed that unrecognised temporary differences of $2.0 billion 2017: $2.2 billion were irrecoverable as management did not anticipate future taxable income in the regions giving rise to this balance, therefore no DTA was recognised for these tax attributes.
The associated disclosure is included within Note 10.
The Audit Committee has included their assessment of this risk on page 95.
For specific detail on the Groups accounting policy, please see Note 3.
How the scope In conjunction with our internal tax audit specialists, we have reviewed and challenged managements judgements regarding of our audit the recoverability of temporary differences.
responded to the key audit matter We have evaluated the design and implementation of key controls that are involved in assessing whether DTAs can be recognised.
We have obtained forecasts showing the expected utilisation of key unrecognised temporary differences in order to further assess their recoverability.
Key observations We concurred with the treatment adopted by management for both recognised and unrecognised DTAs.
Recoverability of the Parent Companys investment in its subsidiaries Key audit matter Following the October 2018 trading update the ConvaTec Group Plc share price fell substantially compared to the price on the description date of listing.
The cost of the investment in the Company only accounts was initially recognised based on the ConvaTec Group Plc offer share price at the date of listing.
The carrying value of the investment at 31 December 2018 was substantially higher than the market capitalisation and accordingly there was an indicator of impairment.
Management estimated the business valuation based on a discounted cash flow model which includes key assumptions such as growth and discount rates, and judgement is required in assessing any required impairment of the investment.
Management have recognised an impairment of $1.6 billion against the investment held by ConvaTec Group Plc Parent Company, reducing the value of the investment to $3.9 billion.
The associated disclosure is included within Note 4 of the Parent Company Financial Statements.
For specific detail on the Parent Company accounting policy, please see Note 1.
How the scope In response to the judgement identified in the key audit matter description above, we evaluated the appropriateness of of our audit managements impairment model including the conclusions reached.
responded to the key audit matter We evaluated the design and implementation of key controls that are involved in assessing the recoverability of the investment value.
We obtained the assessment and calculation of the investment impairment and reviewed the mechanical accuracy of the impairment model.
The adequacy of the disclosure in respect of the impairment recognised was also assessed for appropriateness.
We benchmarked the discount rate applied and compared the long-term growth rate of the cashflows to market analysis.
Consideration was given to alternative evidence on the carrying value of the investment, which could indicate a different result.
Key observations We have concluded that the impairment recognised by management is reasonable and consistent with the judgements made.
The disclosures made following the impairment were concluded to be appropriate.
127 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of ConvaTec Group Plc continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Materiality $12.3m 2017: $12.3m $9.2m 2017: $9.2m Basis for 5.9% 2017: 5.6% of adjusted pre-tax profit.
Adjusted Parent Company materiality equates to 0.2% 2017: 0.2% determining pre-tax profit is calculated from the reported statutory profit of net assets and is capped at 75% of Group materiality.
materiality before tax, adjusted for costs of the pre-IPO share-based payment schemes.
Rationale for the In determining our materiality benchmark, we considered In determining our materiality based on professional benchmark applied the focus of the users of the Financial Statements.
Adjusted judgement we have considered net assets as the appropriate pre-tax profit is a key performance indicator of the Group benchmark given the Parent Company is primarily a holding as well as being the key metric provided in trading updates, company for the Group.
We then capped materiality at the and in third-party analysis of Group performance.
This is a highest component materiality for the Group.
consistent basis with the year ended 31 December 2017.
Group materiality: $12.3m Component materiality range.
m Materiality applied by the component auditors ranged from $8.6 million to $9.2 million 2017: $8.6 million to $9.2 million, depending on the scale of the components operations and our assessment of risks specific to each location.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $0.6 million 2017: $0.6 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
128 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 An overview of the scope of our audit Based on this assessment, we focused our work on twelve 2017: Our Group audit was scoped on an entity level basis, assessing eleven components covering eight 2017: eight countries, 70% components against the risk of material misstatement at the Group 2017: 80% of revenue, 84% 2017: 74% of profit before tax and level.
We have also considered the quantum of Financial Statement 73% 2017: 73% of net assets.
All twelve 2017: eleven components balances and individual financial transactions of a significant nature.
were subject to a full scope audit.
The twelve 2017: eleven In performing our assessment, we have considered the geographical components are located in: the United States of America: the United spread of the Group and any risks presented within each region.
Kingdom: Switzerland: Denmark: Germany: Italy: France: and Japan, representing the principal operating units of the Group.
In addition, we have performed specified audit procedures in ten 1.
Full audit scope: 70% 2017: twelve components covering eight 2017: nine countries,.
Specified audit procedures: 11% 11% 2017: 5% of revenue, 4% 2017: 8% of PBT, and 6% 2017: 3. Review at Group level 19% 10% of net assets.
The ten 2017: twelve components are located in: the United States of America: the United Kingdom: Denmark:.
Spain: Canada: the Dominican Republic: Australia: and Slovakia.
Scope changes in 2018 compared with 2017 included removing the low risk components in the Netherlands and Portugal from scope previously specified audit procedures and changing a UK legal entity from specified audit procedures to a full scope audit because of the material account balances in the entity due to an increase in trade activity.
Profit before tax %.. At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and 1.
carried out analytical review procedures on those entities other 2.
Specified audit procedures: 4% 3. Review at Group level 12% than those noted above.
Any movements in account balances, which did not corroborate our initial risk assessment, were investigated further.
This testing confirmed our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to a full scope audit or specified procedures.
As part of our audit, a senior member of the Group audit team visited each of the most significant components of the Group, including the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Denmark and Switzerland.
These locations were also visited during Net assets %.
Full audit scope: 73% Groups revenue.
As part of these visits meetings were held with 2.
Specified audit procedures: 6% both component management and the component audit team.
addition to our visits, we send detailed instructions to our component audit teams included them in our team briefings and reviewed audit.
work-papers to the extent deemed necessary.
129 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of ConvaTec Group Plc continued Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included We have nothing to report in in the Annual Report including the Overview, Strategic Report and Governance sections but does not include the respect of these matters.
Financial Statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
130 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit, and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: and the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations.
discussing among the engagement team including significant and material component audit teams in UK, Denmark, USA and Switzerland, and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations, and IT specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: forecasting using inappropriate source information resulting in lower impairment charges Parent Company only investment impairment identified as a key audit matter : manipulation of revenue recognition to improve performance identified as a key audit matter : and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the Financial Statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, pensions legislation, and tax legislation.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified key audit matters with respect to: revenue recognition regarding the validity of the sales and or shipments in certain US and UK components, recognition of deferred tax assets in a US component and the recoverability of the Parent Company investment in its subsidiaries as key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report explains these matters in more detail and describes the specific procedures we performed in response.
Our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the Financial Statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and all component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
131 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of ConvaTec Group Plc continued Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors Remuneration We have nothing to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of these matters.
of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed to audit the Financial Statements for the year ending 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is three years, covering the years ending 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Mark Mullins, FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 14 February 2019 132 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
