172 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of CYBG PLC Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: the CYBG PLC Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2018 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The CYBG PLC financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 30 September 2018 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 30 September 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2018 Company Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2018 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 30 September 2018 30 September 2018 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended Company Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 30 September 2018 30 September 2018 Related notes 1.1 to 5.5 to the financial statements Related notes 6.1 to 6.6 to the financial statements Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These have been cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors Responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 173 Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on page 17 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 66 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 185 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 117 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters PPI provision.
Revenue recognition Effective interest method accounting.
Audit scope Our Group audit scope included the complete financial information of the CYBG PLC Group including all its subsidiaries.
All audit work performed for the purposes of the Group audit was undertaken by the primary team.
Materiality Overall Group materiality was 15m which represents 4.5% of underlying profit before tax.
174 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of CYBG PLC Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated Key audit matters Our response to the risk to the Boards Audit Committee Payment Protection Insurance PPI We considered the results of the testing We communicated to the Audit Committee Provision of key controls operating within the PPI that provisions for PPI redress and other The Group has recorded 275m in and other conduct case handling and conduct related matters held by the Group relation to PPI redress provisions.
Please recording processes which supported the were reasonably estimated.
We noted that refer to pages 72 to 78 Audit Committee data used in the determination of key the Groups disclosures describe the report, pages 213 to 215 Provisions for provision assumptions.
We found that we uncertainties and risks associated with liabilities and charges note, pages 231 could place reliance on these controls.
determining the provisions, and the and 232 Contingent liabilities and sensitivity of the provisions to changes in key We examined the models used by the commitments note.
Directors to determine a best estimate of The Group has a material provision the provisions for mis-sold PPI.
The Directors best estimate for future PPI relating to its conduct towards its past claims and associated costs involved We assessed the appropriateness of PPI and present customers linked to its probability weighting a number of possible provision model assumptions, including historic practices of PPI sales.
We reported to the Audit case volumes, redress per claim, up-hold Committee that the estimation of provisions In 2016, the Group entered into a rates and case processing costs, which for PPI claims is inherently uncertain and conduct indemnity deed, granted by its were informed by the Groups historic requires significant judgements to be made former parent, under which all qualifying experience.
We observed that, based remediation costs for past conduct issues We tested the clerical accuracy of the on past experience, there continues to were reimbursed up to a capped amount.
Directors provision calculations and remain the potential for future costs relating As set out on page 215, the capped sensitivity analysis.
to PPI claims to be materially higher than the amount was reached during the first half Directors estimate at 30 September 2018. of the year.
Since that point, all further We determined an independent range of PPI related costs are fully borne by the reasonable future PPI cost outcomes Group.
using the Groups historical experience of PPI claims, and we compared this range During the year, the Group completed its to the Directors estimate.
In evaluating remediation exercise for previously the Directors provision assumptions, we closed PPI complaints.
The FCA has set a considered the Groups historical deadline of 29 August 2019 for forecasting accuracy in this area and we customers to lodge PPI related examined correspondence during the complaints.
year between the Group and the FCA, Significant judgements and assumptions and other regulatory pronouncements.
are required to be made by the Directors We compared the Directors assumptions in relation to the timing, volume and to our own expectations based on the quantum of future redress payments and Groups historical experience, current associated administration costs that will trends and our industry knowledge.
The most significant assumption is the volume of future new PPI complaints.
Details of this assumption, including the reduction in volumes anticipated in advance of the August 2019 time bar, are reported on page 214 in note 3.14.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 175 Key observations communicated Key audit matters Our response to the risk to the Boards Audit Committee SME lending impairment provisions We tested controls over impairment We communicated to the Audit Committee The Group has recorded 136m in calculations and the generation of that the impairment models, calculations and relation to impairment provisions held on portfolio data for use in these assumptions employed by the Group were non-retail credit exposures.
These controls included reasonable as at 30 September 2018 and to pages 204 to 206 Impairment those covering the identification and that these resulted in impairment provisions provisions on credit exposures note.
assessment of potentially impaired loans, that were appropriately estimated.
We also the transfer of data from source systems concluded that the disclosures presented The majority of the Groups non-retail to impairment models, and the calculation were in compliance with IFRSs.
lending portfolio relates to small and of specific impairment provisions.
We medium sized enterprises SMEs which Our communication to the Audit Committee determined that we could rely on these can be vulnerable to both domestic and presented an independent range for the controls for the purposes of our audit.
level of incurred but not reported losses We performed loan file testing on a existing in the Groups loan portfolio, and we Estimating the Groups collective and compared this range to the Directors own sample of impaired loans to determine specific provisioning is subjective, requires post model adjustments.
We found no whether the specific provisions held by the Directors to exercise significant material differences in this comparison.
the Group were, in our judgement, judgement, and incorporates the use of sufficient and appropriate.
Our approach assumptions the most significant of which We assessed and challenged the calculations included the use of our own valuation are the probability of default and loss and related judgements for a sample of specialists to independently test key given default assumptions used in the specific impairment provisions and assumptions underpinning a sample of Groups collective modelling process, and communicated to the Audit Committee that collateral values used in provision the identification and judgements made these procedures did not identify any calculations.
in respect of loan files subject to specific material differences to the provisions assessment.
We tested the collective impairment determined by the Directors.
provision model by using our modelling Due to the materiality of the provisions specialists to examine the logic of the and level of judgement involved, this was model calculations, the accuracy of data considered to be a key audit matter.
inputs, and assessing the appropriateness of key assumptions and loan ratings used within the model.
Using our experience of impairment provisioning in the sector, we assessed the appropriateness of overlays to the collective impairment models applied by the Directors and tested the accuracy of calculations in the overlays.
We evaluated the completeness of SME loans assessed for impairment by the Directors and examined key loans where no impairment provisions were held.
176 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of CYBG PLC Key observations communicated Key audit matters Our response to the risk to the Boards Audit Committee Revenue recognition effective We gained an understanding of key We communicated to the Audit Committee interest method controls and assessed the that the effective interest adjustments As set out on page 203 in note 3.5, the appropriateness of key assumptions used recognised in interest income had been Group has recorded 25m of net within the Groups effective interest appropriately derived.
deferred income in relation to fee income model, primarily the average loan life We also communicated that the and expenses deferred under the Groups assumption, which we corroborated assumptions made by the Directors were effective interest method of accounting.
against underlying loan data, our reasonable in the context of the Groups Please also refer to page 193 net knowledge of market conditions and lending portfolios and current observable interest income accounting policy.
observed practice in the UK banking customer behaviours.
For certain product fees, the Group operates a model to recognise fee We performed data integrity testing on income included within interest income the key sources of information feeding under the effective interest method.
The the effective interest calculation.
This effective interest method spreads the involved sample testing data from recognition of product fee income over business systems to the loan data used in the life of a financial instrument, as these the model and vice versa.
are in substance an integral part of the We examined the journals recording the overall yield.
deferral and amortisation of fee income Effective interest models are sensitive to to verify that the revenue deferred and judgements about the expected lives of amortised over the life of the underlying the product portfolios to which they loans was appropriate and aligned with relate.
Due to the complexity of the effective interest model output.
calculations, the degree of judgement exercised by the Directors in respect of the expected lives of the product portfolios and the different products for which fees are recognised, this is considered a key audit matter.
In the prior year our conduct provisions key audit matter covered PPI and other conduct related provisioning.
As programmes relating to other conduct provisions have substantially been completed during the year, our key audit matter for the current year relates solely to PPI provisions.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group and Parent to be 15m 2017: 17m, which represents 4.5% of underlying profit on ordinary activities before tax consistent with the prior year approach, this is defined as the Groups profit before tax adjusted to exclude one-off expenditure incurred during the year and those related to conduct provisions and restructuring.
A reconciliation between statutory profit and the adjusted profit before tax is shown below: Starting point Adjustments Materiality Statutory loss on ordinary Deduct: Total 331m Underlying profit activities before tax Restructuring and related before tax 164m loss expenditure 38m Materiality of 15m 4.5% of Virgin Money acquisition costs: 37m Underlying profit before tax RBS alternative remedies spend: 16m Separation cost: 8m Legacy conduct costs: 396m Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 177 Performance materiality Performance materiality is the application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 11.25m 2017: 12.75m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our previous experience as auditors of the Group, from which we concluded that there is a lower expectation of material financial statement inaccuracies due to the effective control environment and only minor audit differences resulting from our prior and current year work.
Our approach is consistent with prior year.
Reporting threshold This is the amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.75m 2017: 0.85m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 170, including the Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 33, the Financial Results set out on pages 34 to 43, Governance set out on pages 47 to 119, the Risk Report set out on pages 121 to 170, and Additional Information set out on pages 245 to 257 other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 119 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 72 to 78 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 60 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
178 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of CYBG PLC Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 119, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect of fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our audit approach in respect of irregularities, including fraud, was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant were the regulations, licence conditions and supervisory requirements of the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
We understood how the Group complies with these legal and regulatory frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, and those responsible for legal and compliance matters.
We also: reviewed correspondence between the Group and UK regulatory bodies: reviewed minutes of the Board and Executive Risk Committee: and gained an understanding of the Groups approach to governance, demonstrated by the Boards approval of the Groups governance framework and the Boards review of the Groups risk management framework RMF and internal control processes.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by considering the controls that the Group has established to address risks identified by the entity, or that otherwise seek to prevent, deter or detect fraud.
We also considered performance and incentive plan targets and their potential to influence management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of investors.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved inquiries of legal counsel, executive management, internal audit, and focused testing, as referred to in the Key Audit Matters section above.
The Group operates in the banking industry which is a highly regulated environment.
As such the Senior Statutory Auditor considered the experience and expertise of the engagement team to ensure that the team had the appropriate competence and capabilities, which included the use of specialists where appropriate.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 179 A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed as CYBG PLCs External Auditor and signed an engagement letter on 14 January 2016, prior to CYBG PLC becoming the holding company of the Group on its Demerger and IPO in February 2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement as auditors of CYBG PLC including previous renewals and reappointments, is three years, covering the years ending 30 September 2016 to 30 September 2018 The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Steven Robb Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Leeds 26 November 2018 Notes 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the CYBG PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
