DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Daejan Holdings Plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Daejan Holdings PLC the Company for the year ended 31 March 2018 which comprise Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, Company Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the company before 1959.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for more than the 60 financial years ended 31 March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: 24.1 million 2017: 21.6 million Group financial statements as a whole 1.0% 2017: 0.9% of Gross Assets Lower materiality: 2.7 million 2017: 2.4 million Applied to certain items 5.0% 2017: 4.4% of normalised profit Coverage 100% 2017: 100% of Gross Assets Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 Recurring risks Valuation of investment property Group Current tax liability Recurring risk Recoverability of investment in Parent subsidiary undertakings Page 49 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2017, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The Risk Valuation of investment property Group Group: 2,373.2 million: 2017: 2,256.8 million Refer to page 39 Audit Committee Report, page 64 Significant accounting policies and page 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Subjective valuation Investment properties represent 93.6% 2017: 93.8% of gross assets of the Group.
The property portfolios are externally valued by qualified independent valuers and held at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Determination of the fair value of the investment properties is considered a significant audit risk due to the magnitude of the balance and the subjective nature of the valuation methodology and inputs which depend on the individual nature of each property, its location and expected future net rental values, market yields and comparable market transactions.
Our Response Our procedures included: Assessing valuers credentials: we assessed the valuers objectivity, professional qualifications and capabilities through discussions with the valuers, reading their valuation reports, and reviewing their terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have imposed scope limitations upon their work.
Methodology choice: we held discussions with the Groups external property valuers to determine the valuation methodology used.
With the assistance of our own property valuation specialists, critically assessing that the valuations were in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards the Red Book for the valuation of the UK portfolio, and the Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice of the Appraisal Institute for the valuation of the US portfolio, and that the methodologies adopted were appropriate by reference to acceptable valuation practice.
Benchmarking assumptions: with the assistance of our own property valuation specialists we held discussions with the Groups external property valuers to critically assess movements in property values.
For a sample of properties selected using various criteria including analysis of capital movements by comparison to industry indices or published market trends, we evaluated and challenged as appropriate the key assumptions upon which these valuations were based, including Page 50 D DAEJ AEJAN AN H HOLDINGS OLDINGS PLC PLC Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2018 t & Accounts 2018 forecast rents, yields, discount rates, vacant periods and irrecoverable expenditure and comparable transactions by making a comparison to our own understanding of the market and to industry benchmarks.
Assessing transparency: we considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures on the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs employed in the valuation.
Our results We found the valuation of investment properties to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
The Risk Current tax liability Group Group: 47.3 million: 2017: 47.2 million Refer to page 39 Audit Committee Report, page 66 Significant accounting policies and page 71 Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Dispute outcome Accruals for tax contingencies require the directors to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
This is a key audit risk due to the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with the tax authorities and complexity of tax legislation.
The majority of the current tax liability relates to a number of open periods which the Group has with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC, as a result of ongoing enquiries into the interpretation of tax legislation regarding historical financing arrangements undertaken by the Group.
Our Response Our procedures included: Our tax expertise: we used our own internal tax specialists to assist us in assessing the Groups open tax positions.
With the assistance of our internal tax specialists we inspected the latest correspondence between the Group and HMRC regarding open matters.
In addition, we read legal advice or opinions obtained in the period in relation to uncertain tax positions, in order to consider whether the level of accruals recognised at year end is based on up to date legal advice in response to HMRCs challenges.
We analysed and challenged the assumptions used to determine tax accruals based on our knowledge and experiences of the application of local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
Assessing transparency: we assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions by reference to relevant accounting standards.
Our results We found the current tax liability to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Page 51 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued The Risk Recoverability of investment in subsidiary undertakings Parent Parent: 1,326.9 million: 2017: 1,330.5 million Refer to page 90 Accounting policies and page 92 Notes to the Company financial statements.
Low risk, high value The carrying amount of the parent companys investments in subsidiaries represents 98.6% 2017: 99.4% of the companys total assets.
Their recoverability is not at a high risk of significant misstatement or subject to significant judgement.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the parent company financial statements, this is considered to be the area that had the greatest effect on our overall parent company audit.
Our Response Our procedures included: Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of 100% of investments with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheet to identify whether their net assets, being an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether those subsidiaries have historically been profit-making or whether they have a positive net asset value and therefore coverage of the debt owed.
For the investments where the carrying amount exceeded the net asset value, comparing the carrying amount of the investment with the consolidated net assets.
Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed by the Group or subsidiary audit team on all of those subsidiaries and considering the results of that work, on those subsidiaries profits and net assets, including assessing the ability of the subsidiaries to obtain liquid funds and therefore the ability of the subsidiaries to fund the repayment.
Our results We found the recoverability of the investment in subsidiary to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 24.1 million 2017: 21.6 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets, of which it represents 1.0% 2017: 0.9%.
In addition, we applied materiality of 2.7 million 2017: 2.4 million, determined with regard to normalised profit before tax adjusted for net valuation gains, fair value gains on derivative financial instruments and realised gains on property disposals, as defined on page 20, to rental income, property operating expenses, administrative expenses and financial expenses, for which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could reasonably be expected to influence the companys members assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 13.4 million 2017: 13.4 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Company gross assets, of which it represents 1.0% 2017: 1.0%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 1.2 million Group 2017: 1.1 million, 0.7 million Parent Company 2017: 0.7 million or 0.1 million 2017: 0.1 million for misstatements relating to procedures performed to Page 52 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 the lower materiality, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Total Assets Group Materiality 2,535.0 million 2017: 2,406.8 million 24.1 million 2017: 21.6 million 24.1 million Whole financial statements materiality 2017: 21.6 million 2.2 million Range of materiality of the 50 components 2,038 to 2.2 million 2017: 1,995 to 1.9 million Total Assets 1.2 million Group materiality Misstatements reported to the audit committee 2017: 1.1 million Of the groups 50 2017: 50 reporting components, we subjected 50 2017: 50 to full scope audits for group purposes.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated below.
Group revenue Group profit before tax Group total assets 100% 100% 100% 2017 100% 2017 100% 2017 100% Key Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 2,038 to 2.2m 2017: 1,995 to 1.9m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The Group team instructed the component auditor as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The work on 1 of the 50 components 2017: 1 of the 50 components was performed by a component auditor and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
Page 53 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued The Group team visited the component audited by the component auditor to assess the audit risk and strategy.
At this visit, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement on page 47 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 32 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within the Viability statement on page 28 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: Page 54 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 the principal risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the Viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Report does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 47, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such Page 55 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the group to component audit team of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of non-compliance with relevant irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
Page 56 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Richard Kelly Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 20 July 2018 Page 57
