138 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements 139 Statement of Directors Independent auditors report TO THE MEMBERS OF DERWENT LONDON PLC responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, Report on the audit of the financial statements Our audit approach thereport of the Remuneration Committee and the financial takenasa whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Opinion Overview statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
providesthe information necessary for shareholders to assess In our opinion, Derwent London plcs group financial statements Materiality Materiality theGroups position, performance, business model and strategy.
andcompany financial statements the financial statements : Overall group materiality: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 53.2million 2017: 50.1 million, for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the based on 1% of total assets.
the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with pages 88 and 89, confirm that to the best of their knowledge: companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups Specific group materiality: Audit scope International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the profit and the groups and the companys cash flows for the year 4.0million 2017: 4.0 million EU.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in then ended: applied to property and other statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair have been properly prepared in accordance with International income, administrative expenses, view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the provisions and working capital Key audit profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial loss of the Group: and European Union and, as regards the companys financial balances.
matters statements, the Directors are required to: The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions Overall company materiality: and performance of the business and the position of the Group, oftheCompanies Act 2006: and 41.5 million 2017: 34.2 million, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them together with a description of the principal risks and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of based on 2% of total assets.
consistently: uncertainties that it faces.
theCompanies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Scope and prudent: The financial statements on pages 145 to 199 were approved We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European bytheBoard of Directors and signed on its behalf by: We have audited the financial statements, included within the Report enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial Union have been followed, subject to any material departures and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Balance statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and John Burns sheets as at 31 December 2018: the Group income statement and structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Chief Executive Group statement of comprehensive income, the Cash flow and the industry in which the Group operates.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will statements, and the Statements of changes in equity for the year The Groups properties are spread across 28 statutory entities continue in business.
Damian Wisniewski then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include with the Group financial statements being a consolidation of Finance Director a description of the significant accounting policies.
these entities, the Company and the Groups joint ventures.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 26 February 2019 Eachstatutory entity which owned a property was identified records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
asrequiring an audit of its complete financial information, transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time eitherdue to size, risk characteristics or statutory requirements.
thefinancial position of the Company and the Group and enable Basis for opinion Thiswork, all of which was carried out by the Group audit team, them to ensure that the financial statements and the report of the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards together with additional procedures performed on the Remuneration Committee comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities consolidation, gave us sufficient appropriate audit evidence as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities forour opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps Webelieve that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient Key audit matters for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
andappropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Valuation of investment properties Group.
Compliance with REIT guidelines Group.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Independence Accounting for borrowings and derivatives Group and parent.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing We remained independent of the group in accordance with the the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial The scope of our audit from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and asapplicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made requirements.
subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the company.
Other than those disclosed in note 10 to the financial statements, wehave provided no non-audit services to the group or the company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
140 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements 141 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of investment properties The valuers used by the Group are CBRE Limited for the Central INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Group London portfolio and Savills for the majority of the remaining Refer to page 105 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 162 to 165 investment property portfolio in Scotland.
They are well-known Notes to the financial statements - Note 16 and page 197 Significant firms, with sufficient experience of the Groups market.
We assessed We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework Obtaining confirmation of matters discussed with legal accounting policies.
the competence and capabilities of the firms and verified their applicable to the group and the industry in which it operates, advisorsdirectly from the relevant advisors: qualifications by discussing the scope of their work and reviewing the The Groups investment properties were valued at 5,028.2 million andconsidered the risk of acts by the group which were contrary Review of tax compliance with the involvement of our tax terms of their engagements for unusual terms or fee arrangements.
as at 31 December 2018 and a revaluation gain of 83.4 million toapplicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
Based on our specialists in the audit: Based on this work, we are satisfied that the firms remain independent was accounted for under revaluation surplus in the Group income understanding of the group industry, we identified that the principal Procedures relating to the valuation of investment properties and competent and that the scope of their work was appropriate.
In excess of 98% of the value of the Groups investment risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to described in the related key audit matter below: property portfolio comprises offices and commercial space within We tested the data inputs underpinning the investment property non-compliance with health and safety or environmental and Reviewing relevant meeting minutes, including those of the Central London.
The remainder of the portfolio represents a retail valuation for a sample of properties, including rental income, sustainability legislation and breaches of the Real Estate Investment RiskCommittee and the Audit Committee: and park, cottages and strategic land in Scotland.
acquisitions and capital expenditure, by agreeing them to the underlying property records held by the Group to assess the reliability, Trust REIT status section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal Valuations are carried out by third party valuers in accordance with completeness and accuracy of the underlying data.
The underlying seepage 105 of the Annual Report.
We designed audit procedures entries posted with unusual account combinations or posted theRICS Valuation Professional Standards and IAS 40. property records were assessed for reliability by reviewing signed and at group and significant component level to respond to the risk, bysenior management.
There are significant judgements and estimates to be made in relation approved lease contracts or sale purchase contracts and by reviewing recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement to the valuation of the Groups investment properties.
Where available, approved third party invoices.
For the properties currently under due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described the valuations take into account evidence of market transactions for development, we traced the costs to date included within development error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and properties and locations comparable to those of the Group.
appraisals to quantity surveyor reports.
In addition, wevisited a forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the The Central London investment property portfolio mainly features number of the key properties in Central London that are under Wefocused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
office accommodation and includes: development to confirm the status of developments.
We met with misstatement in the group and company financial statements, the external valuers independently of management and obtained the Standing investments: These are existing properties that are including, but not limited to the Companies Act 2006, the Listing We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, valuation reports to discuss and challenge the valuation methodology currentlylet.
They are valued using the income capitalisation method.
Rules, Pensions legislation, and UK tax legislation.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of Development projects: These are properties currently under managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent management override of internal controls, including testing journals We involved our internal valuation specialists to compare the development or identified for future development.
They have a different manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors valuations of each property to our independently formed market risk and investment profile to the standing investments.
These are expectations and challenged any differences.
In doing this we used override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
valued using the residual appraisal method i. e. by estimating the fair evidence of comparable market transactions and focused in particular related to posting inappropriate journal entries to increase revenue value of the completed project using the income capitalisation method on properties where the growth in capital values was higher or lower less estimated costs to completion and a risk premium.
or reduce expenditure, and management bias in accounting Key audit matters than our expectations based on market indices.
estimates and judgemental areas of the financial statements Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors The most significant estimates affecting the valuation included We identified the following categories of assets for further testing: suchas the valuation of investment properties.
Our tests included, professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of yields and estimated rental value ERV growth as described in standing investments where the valuation fell outside the expected but were not limited to: thefinancial statements of the current period and include the most note 16 of the financial statements.
For development projects, range: ongoing and planned development projects: high value assets other assumptions including costs to completion and risk premium significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or over 100m: and acquisitions.
assumptions are also factored into the valuation.
Discussion with management, including the Company Secretary, notdue to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which In relation to these assets, we found that yield rates and ERVs were including consideration of known or suspected instances hadthe greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation The surplus on revaluation is primarily driven by the progress on the predominantly consistent with comparable information for Central development projects where further capital expenditure has been ofnon-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud: ofresources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement London offices and assumptions appropriately reflected comparable incurred and the risk weighting applied to the valuation has decreased Evaluation of managements controls designed to prevent team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of market information.
Where assumptions did not fall within our hence increasing the capitalised value.
Excluding these properties, anddetect irregularities: our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit expected range, we assessed whether additional evidence presented the surplus reflects fairly flat ERVs in the central London property Review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion in arriving at the final valuations was appropriate, and, whether market with some significant new lettings being offset by ERV supporting documentation: thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
this was robustly challenged by the external independent valuers.
Assessment of matters reported on the groups whistleblowing This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Variances were predominantly due to property specific factors such The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with the as new lettings at higher rents, movements in ERV or yield to reflect helpline and the results of managements investigation of such fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property market transactions in close proximity or the derisking of development matters where relevant: valuations when aggregated could result in material misstatement, projects nearing completion.
We verified the movements to supporting iswhy we have given specific audit focus and attention to this area.
documentation including evidence of comparable market transactions where appropriate.
We challenged the Directors and Audit Committee on the movements in the valuations and found that they were able to provide explanations and refer to appropriate supporting evidence.
Compliance with REIT guidelines We confirmed our understanding of managements approach to Group ensuring compliance with the REIT regime rules.
Refer to page 105 Report of the Audit Committee and page 151 We obtained managements calculations and supporting Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates.
documentation, checking their accuracy by verifying the inputs and The UK REIT regime grants companies tax exempt status provided they calculation.
We involved our internal taxation specialists to verify the meet the rules within the regime.
The rules are complex and the tax accuracy of the application of the rules.
exempt status has a significant impact on the financial statements.
We found that the assessment prepared was free from material error The complexity of the rules creates a risk of inadvertently breach and and consistent with the UK REIT guidelines.
the Groups profit becoming subject to tax.
142 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements 143 For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors report, we also INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies of materiality allocated across components was calculated based on Act 2006 have been included.
the materiality of each statutory entity, in all instances this was less Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter than our overall group materiality.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work Accounting for borrowings and derivatives We obtained and reviewed each loan contract to understand the terms undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 Group and parent and conditions.
Where debt covenants were identified, we re-performed We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Refer to page 105 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 170 to 179 managements calculations to verify compliance with the contracts.
themmisstatements identified during our audit above 2.6 million Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters Notes to the financial statements Note 23 and pages 198 to 199 Thecarrying value of all debt was agreed to third party confirmations.
for items audited using overall materiality and 0.4 million for items as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
For derivatives, we agreed the carrying value to valuations obtained audited using specific materiality Group audit 2017: 2.5 million The Group has secured and unsecured debt totalling 914.5 million directly from the third party valuers, JC Rathbone Associates.
and 0.4 million and 2.0 million Company audit 2017: 1.7 million Strategic Report and Directors report 2017: 730.8 million.
The debt includes unsecured convertible debt Weassessed the competence and capabilities of the external valuers as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the of 148.4 million 2017: 145.6 million with an option for the Group to by considering their qualifications and market experience.
We involved warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors convert the debt when certain criteria have been met.
our internal specialists who performed independent valuations to report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the recalculate the value using independent market data.
The Group uses interest rate swaps on a portion of its debt.
The interest Going concern financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with rate swaps were valued at 31 December 2018 by external valuers and From our work on of the terms of the debt arrangements in place as In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: applicable legal requirements.
CA06 the fair value was 3.6m million 2017: 7.9 million.
The valuation of the at 31 December 2018, we consider the borrowings and derivatives swaps is based on market movements which can fluctuate significantly to be accounted for appropriately, valued correctly in the context Reporting obligation Outcome In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and in the year and could have a material impact on the Group financial ofmateriality, and disclosed appropriately.
We are required to report if we We have nothing material to add company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, statements.
The valuation also involves the use of estimates and have anything material to add or to draw attention to.
However, therefore is considered an area of audit focus.
we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic or draw attention to in respect because not all future events Report and Directors report.
CA06 of the directors statement in or conditions can be predicted, the financial statements about thisstatement is not a guarantee How we tailored the audit scope Materiality The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and whether the directors considered as to the groups and companys We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or it appropriate to adopt the going ability to continue as a going enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
liquidity of the group concern basis of accounting concern.
as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to in preparing the financial We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: For example, the terms on statements and the directors company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of which the United Kingdom may identification of any material inwhich they operate.
our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items withdraw from the European The directors confirmation on page 111 of the Annual Report that uncertainties to the groups and Union, which is currently due and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks the companys ability to continue to occur on 29 March 2019, The Groups properties are spread across 28 statutory entities with individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
facing the group, including those that would threaten its business as a going concern over a period are not clear, and it is difficult the Group financial statements being a consolidation of these model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
of at least twelve months from to evaluate all of the potential entities, the Company and the Groups joint ventures.
Each statutory The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks the date of approval of the implications on the companys entity which owned a property was identified as requiring an audit and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
trade, customers, suppliers and ofits complete financial information, either due to size, risk The directors explanation on pages 44 and 45 of the Annual the wider economy.
This work, all of which Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, We are required to report if the We have nothing to report.
wascarried out by the Group audit team, together with additional over what period they have done so and why they consider that directors statement relating to procedures performed on the consolidation, gave us sufficient period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they Going Concern in accordance appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Group financial have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to with Listing Rule 9.8.
The audit of the Company was also carried continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over materially inconsistent with our out by the Group audit team.
the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures knowledge obtained in the audit.
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors Group financial statements Company financial statements Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Overall materiality 53.2 million 2017: 50.1 million.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Ouropinion on the financial statements does not cover the other longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less Rationale for benchmark applied The key driver of the business and determinant The key driver of the business and determinant information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and of the Groups value is direct property of the Companys value is investments in except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any considering the directors process supporting their statements: investments.
Due to this, the key area of focus subsidiaries.
Due to this, the key area of focus form of assurance thereon.
checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant in the audit is the valuation of investment in the audit is the valuation of investments in provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and properties.
On this basis, we set an overall subsidiaries.
On this basis, we set an overall In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our considering whether the statements are consistent with the Group materiality level based on total assets.
Company materiality level based on total responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their In addition, a number of key performance assets.
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules indicators of the Group are driven by income with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, statement items and we therefore also applied or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an a lower specific materiality for testing property apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are and other income, administrative expenses, provisions and working capital balances.
required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we haveperformed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
Wehavenothing to report based on these responsibilities.
