Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 95 Other than those disclosed in note 3b to the financial statements, we have provided no other non-audit services to the group or the Independent auditors company in the period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018. report to the members Our audit approach Overview of Diageo plc Materiality Group financial statements: 193 million 2017: 179 million, based Report on the audit of the financial statements on 5% of profit before taxation and exceptional items as defined Opinion in note 4 to the group financial statements.
In our opinion: Company financial statements: 96 million 2017: 97 million, Diageo plcs group financial statements and company financial based on 0.5% of net assets.
For the purposes of the group audit, statements the financial statements give a true and fair view we applied a lower materiality of 21 million 2017: 20 million to of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at company balances and transactions, other than those which were 30 June 2018 and of the groups profit and cash flows for the eliminated on consolidation in the group financial statements.
year then ended: The group financial statements have been properly prepared Audit scope in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: We conducted full scope audit work in nine countries in which the group has significant operations.
Our work also covered the The company financial statements have been properly prepared in five group shared service centres.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS In addition, we performed the audit of specific balances and 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and transactions in four countries, and obtained reporting over the financial information of Mot Hennessy, the groups principal The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with associate, from its auditor.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
During the year, the group engagement team visited eight countries where full scope audits were performed, four shared We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual service centres and two of the countries where audits of specific Report, which comprise: the consolidated and company balance balances and transactions took place.
sheets as at 30 June 2018: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then Areas of focus ended: the consolidated and company statements of changes in Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets group equity for the year then ended: and the consolidated statement of Uncertain tax positions in respect of direct and indirect cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the group and taxes group company financial statements, which include a description of the Presentation of exceptional items group significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Provisions and contingent liabilities group and company Audit Committee.
Business combinations group Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the group financial statements, the group, The scope of our audit in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial Standards Board IASB.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made In our opinion, the group financial statements have been properly subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Basis for opinion We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards framework applicable to the group and the industry in which it on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities operates, and considered the risk of acts by the group which were under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
designed audit procedures at group and significant component level We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not Independence detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate We remained independent of the group in accordance with the concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and statements in the United Kingdom, which includes the FRCs Ethical regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have group and company financial statements, including, but not limited fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, UK tax legislation and requirements.
equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting not provided to the group or the company.
96 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report documentation, review of correspondence with legal advisors, Key audit matters enquiries of management, review of significant component auditors Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit statements of the current period and include the most significant procedures described above and the further removed assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in would become aware of it.
the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, matters, and any comments we make on the results of our including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit management override of internal controls, including testing journals of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets group We evaluated the appropriateness of managements identification Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee and note 10 of the groups CGUs and tested the operation of the groups controls Intangible assets over the impairment assessment process, which we found to be satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
The group has goodwill of 2,678 million, indefinite-lived brand intangibles of 8,330 million and other intangible assets of Our audit procedures included challenging management on the 1,564 million as at 30 June 2018, included within 21 cash generating appropriateness of the impairment models and reasonableness of the units CGUs.
assumptions used, focusing in particular on the CGU containing the Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets must be tested for USL goodwill, the ARM CGU, the Meta and Windsor Premier brands, impairment on at least an annual basis.
The determination of through performing the following: recoverable amount, being the higher of value-in-use and fair value Benchmarking Diageos key market-related assumptions in the less costs to dispose, requires estimations on the part of models, including discount rates, long term growth rates and management in both identifying and then valuing the relevant exchange rates, against external data, using our valuation CGUs.
Recoverable amounts are based on managements expertise: assumptions of variables and market conditions such as future price Assessing the reliability of cash flow forecasts through a review of and volume growth rates, the timing of future operating actual past performance and comparison to previous forecasts: expenditure, and the most appropriate discount and long term growth rates.
Testing the mathematical accuracy and performing sensitivity An impairment charge was recognised in respect of the Meta analyses of the models: brand, related other assets and goodwill allocated to the Africa Regional Markets ARM CGU of 40 million, 38 million and Understanding the commercial prospects of the assets, and where 50 million, respectively.
possible comparison of assumptions with external data sources: Management has determined that the CGU containing the USL For the ARM CGU and Meta brand, we specifically assessed the goodwill and the Windsor Premier brand are sensitive to reasonably trigger for the impairment charge in the period including the possible changes in the assumptions used, which could result in the current challenges faced by the business, how these have calculated recoverable amount being lower than the carrying value impacted performance, and whether they were appropriately of the CGU or the brand.
In addition, the ARM CGU remains sensitive reflected in the revised forecast growth rates: and as not all of the goodwill has been impaired and therefore any further deterioration in the forecast plan would result in an For USL goodwill, we assessed the reasonableness of the forecasts additional impairment charge.
Additional sensitivity disclosure by challenging the assumptions in respect of growth strategies has been included in the group financial statements in respect in the Indian market.
We assessed the appropriateness and completeness of the related disclosures in note 10 of the group financial statements, including the sensitivities provided in respect of USL goodwill, the ARM CGU and the Windsor Premier brand, and considered them to be reasonable.
Based on our procedures, we noted no material exceptions and considered managements key assumptions to be within reasonable ranges.
Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 97 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Uncertain tax positions in respect of direct and indirect taxes We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect of identifying uncertain tax positions, which we found to be group Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee, note 7 Taxation and note 18 satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
We also evaluated the Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings related accounting policy for provisioning for tax exposures and The group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is found it to be appropriate.
We used our tax specialists to gain an understanding of the subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the normal course of business, including transfer current status of tax assessments and investigations and to monitor pricing, direct and indirect taxes, and transaction related tax matters.
We read recent rulings and As at 30 June 2018, the group has corporate tax receivables of correspondence with local tax authorities, as well as external advice 65 million, corporate tax payables of 243 million, deferred tax provided by the groups tax experts and legal advisors where assets of 122 million and deferred tax liabilities of 1,987 million.
relevant, to satisfy ourselves that the tax provisions had been Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the group appropriately recorded or adjusted to reflect the latest establishes provisions based on managements judgement of the developments.
Where the basis for the conclusion reached was less likelihood of settlement being required.
clear, we challenged the legal advisors and tax experts on how their We focused on the judgements made by management in view was reached.
assessing the likelihood of potentially material exposures and the We challenged managements key assumptions, in particular on estimates used to determine such provisions where required.
In cases where there had been significant developments with tax particular, we focused on the impact of changes in local tax authorities, noting no significant deviations from our expectations.
regulations and ongoing inspections by local tax authorities and In respect of the transfer pricing agreement with HMRC during international bodies, which could materially impact the amounts the period, we read the correspondence and the basis of the recorded in the group financial statements.
agreement to obtain the necessary comfort over the classification This included evaluating the impact of the European and quantum of the balances recorded within the financial Commissions state aid investigation, the assessment for transfer statements.
pricing issued by HM Revenue & Customs in the United Kingdom, We assessed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in indirect tax assessments in developing markets and assessments notes 7 and 18 of the group financial statements, and considered relating to financing and transfer pricing structures.
Presentation of exceptional items group We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee and note 4 of exceptional items, which we found to be satisfactory for the Exceptional items purposes of our audit.
In the past few years the group has reported significant levels We considered the judgements within managements of exceptional items separately within the consolidated income accounting papers for the one-off transactions, and obtained statement which are excluded from managements reporting of corroborative evidence for the items presented as exceptional items.
the underlying results of the group.
We considered these to be supportable.
The nature of these exceptional items is explained within the The audit procedures pertaining to the impairment charge in group accounting policy and includes gains or losses arising on respect of Meta and the ARM CGU are summarised under the acquisitions or disposals, impairment charges or reversals, and costs Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets section above.
resulting from non-recurring legal or regulatory matters.
We tested managements calculation for the TCJA, including the This year the group has reported 128 million of net operating mathematical accuracy and completeness of the benefit recognised.
exceptional costs and 203 million of net tax exceptional gains, We engaged our tax experts to also assess the completeness of the which are primarily in respect of: adjustment in respect of the impact on corporate taxes, deferred taxes and the associated tolling charge and assessed these as having An impairment charge in respect of the Meta brand, related other been appropriately considered.
assets and goodwill allocated to the Africa Regional Markets We challenged managements rationale for the designation ARM CGU: of certain items as exceptional and assessed such items against An exceptional tax credit primarily resulted from applying the Tax the groups accounting policy considering the nature and value Cuts and Jobs Act TCJA enacted on 22 December 2017 in the of the items.
United States: and We assessed the appropriateness and completeness of the disclosures in note 4 and other related notes to the group financial An exceptional tax charge in respect of the transfer pricing statements, and checked that these reflected the output of agreement with HM Revenue & Customs.
managements accounting papers, noting no significant deviations Our specific area of focus was to assess whether the items identified from our expectations.
by management as exceptional met the definition of the groups We also considered whether there were items that were recorded accounting policy i. e. are exceptional in nature and value and have within underlying profit that we determined to be exceptional in been treated consistently, as the identification of such items requires nature and should have been reported within exceptional items.
Consistency in the identification and No such material items were identified.
presentation of these items is important to ensure the comparability of year on year reporting.
98 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provisions and contingent liabilities group and company We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect of litigation and regulatory matters, which we found Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee, note 14 d Working capital provisions and note 18 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings to be satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
The group faces a number of threatened and actual legal and Our procedures included the following: regulatory cases.
There is a high level of judgement required in Where relevant, reading external legal advice obtained by assessing the likelihood of settlement and the disclosures required.
management to assess the likelihood and quantum of the There is also estimation risk in assessing the level of potential potential liability: exposure that may exist.
Discussing open matters and developments with the group and regional general counsel: Meeting with regional and local management and reading relevant correspondence: Assessing and challenging managements conclusions through understanding precedents set in similar cases to assess managements judgments and estimates of the liability where relevant: and Circularising relevant third party legal representatives, together with follow up discussions, where appropriate, on certain cases.
Based on the evidence obtained, whilst noting the inherent uncertainty with such legal and regulatory matters, we determined that the level of provisioning at 30 June 2018 is appropriate.
We assessed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in notes 14 d and 18 of the group financial statements, and consider them to be reasonable.
We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect Post-employment benefit obligations group Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee and note 13 of post-employment benefit obligations, which we found to be Postemployment benefits satisfactory for the purposes of our audit.
The group has approximately 40 defined benefit post We used our actuarial experts to assess whether the assumptions used in calculating the liabilities for the United Kingdom, Ireland employment plans.
The total present value of obligations is 9,244 million at 30 June 2018, which is significant in the context of the and North America pension plans were reasonable, by performing overall balance sheet of the group.
The groups most significant the following: plans are in the United Kingdom, Ireland and North America.
Assessing whether salary increases and mortality rate assumptions The valuation of pension plan liabilities requires estimation were consistent with the specifics of each plan and, where in determining appropriate assumptions such as salary increases, applicable, with relevant national and industry benchmarks: mortality rates, discount rates, inflation levels and the impact Verifying that the discount and inflation rates used were consistent of any changes in individual pension plans.
Movements in these with our internally developed benchmarks and in line with other assumptions can have a material impact on the determination companies recent external reporting: and of the liability.
Management uses external actuaries to assist in determining these assumptions.
Reviewing the calculations prepared by external actuaries to assess the consistency of the assumptions used.
Based on our procedures, we noted no exceptions and considered managements key assumptions to be within reasonable ranges.
We assessed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 13 of the group financial statements, and consider them to be reasonable.
Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 99 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Business combinations group We obtained the purchase price allocation performed by managements valuation experts and considered their methodology Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee and note 9 Acquisition and sale of businesses and purchase of non-controlling interests and assumptions using our own valuation experts.
In particular, our The group completed the acquisition of Casamigos Tequila, LLC experts assessed the growth projections, market participant during the year for a total consideration of 721 million, recognising synergies, margin evolution and discount rates as well as the integrity and mechanical accuracy of managements valuation a brand intangible asset of 469 million and goodwill of 237 million.
Accounting for business combinations is an area of focus as it can model.
This evaluation included benchmarking growth and involve judgements and estimates in relation to the value of assets profitability ratios to comparable brands of the group.
and liabilities that are recognised on acquisition, particularly the In assessing the above factors we also considered whether any allocation of purchase consideration to goodwill and separately intangibles in addition to the brand were acquired and considered identified intangible assets.
managements judgment that no further assets should be recognised to be supportable.
We also performed sensitivity analysis over certain assumptions such as sales volume and the discount rate used in managements valuation.
We determined that the cash flows applied within the valuation models and the key assumptions were appropriate.
We understood managements opening balance sheet adjustments and obtained supporting evidence to corroborate these.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed consolidation journals and the one-off transactions undertaken by enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial the group during the year.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure Together, the central and component locations at which work was of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry performed by the group engagement team and component auditors in which the group operates.
accounted for 71% of group net sales, 84% of group total assets, and The group operates as 21 geographically based markets across 63% of group profit before tax and exceptional items, with work five regions, together with supply and corporate functions.
These performed by the group engagement team over exceptional items markets report through a significant number of individual reporting contributing a further 1% coverage over group profit before tax total components, which are supported by the groups five principal of 64%.
At the group level, we also carried out analytical and other shared service centres in Hungary, Kenya, Colombia, India and the procedures on the reporting components not covered by the Philippines.
The outputs from these shared service centres are procedures described above.
included in the financial information of the reporting components Where the work was performed by component auditors, they service, and therefore are not separate reporting components.
including by our shared service centre auditors, we determined the In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those determined the type of work that needed to be performed at locations to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit reporting components by us, as the group engagement team, evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group or component auditors from either other PwC network firms financial statements as a whole.
We issued formal, written or the non-PwC firm operating under our instruction.
This included instructions to component auditors setting out the work to be consideration of the procedures required to be performed by our performed by each of them and maintained regular communication audit teams at the groups shared service centres to support our throughout the audit cycle.
These interactions included attending component auditors.
component clearance meetings and holding regular conference calls, We identified two reporting components which, in our view, as well as reviewing and assessing matters reported.
required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their Senior members of the group engagement team also visited significance to the group.
Those reporting components were North 13 component locations in eight countries in scope for an audit America and USL.
A further 12 reporting components had an audit of their complete financial information, as well as four of the shared of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their centre locations and four of the components two countries where risk characteristics, which included six operating and three treasury audits of specific balances and transactions took place.
We audited specific balances and included meetings with local management and with the component transactions at a further six reporting components, and obtained auditors, as well as certain operating site tours.
The group reporting over the financial information of Mot Hennessy, the engagement partners also attended the year-end clearance groups principal associate, from its auditor, primarily to ensure meetings for North America and USL, and the group engagement appropriate audit coverage.
The work performed at each of the five team reviewed the audit working papers for these components shared services centres, including testing of transaction processing and certain other components.
and controls, supported the financial information of the reporting Materiality components they service.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of Certain specific audit procedures over central corporate functions materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
and areas of significant judgement, including goodwill and intangible These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to assets, business combinations, taxation, and material provisions and determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent contingent liabilities, were performed at the groups head office.
We of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line also performed work centrally on systems and IT general controls, 100 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report Going concern items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: as a whole.
Reporting obligation Outcome Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: We are required to report if we have We have nothing anything material to add or draw material to add or Group financial Company financial attention to in respect of the directors to draw attention to.
statements statements statement in the financial statements However, because not Overall 193 million 2017: 96 million 2017: 97 million.
about whether the directors considered all future events or materiality 179 million.
For the purposes of the audit it appropriate to adopt the going conditions can be of the group financial concern basis of accounting in preparing predicted, this statements, we applied the financial statements and the statement is not a a lower materiality of directors identification of any material guarantee as to the 21 million 2017: 20 million groups and companys uncertainties to the groups and the to all balances and companys ability to continue as a going ability to continue as transactions, other than those concern over a period of at least twelve a going concern.
which eliminated on months from the date of approval of the consolidation in the group financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors We have nothing How we 5% of profit before Materiality of 96 million statement relating to Going Concern in to report.
determined it taxation and for the company financial accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 exceptional items statements was based on is materially inconsistent with our as defined in note 0.5% of net assets.
Our lower knowledge obtained in the audit.
4 to the group materiality of 21 million for financial the line items set out above Reporting on other information statements.
was based on our calculation The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual and allocation of component Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report materiality for the thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other Rationale for We consider an The results of procedures information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion benchmark adjusted measure performed over balances or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, applied to be one of the and transactions any form of assurance thereon.
principal contributing to the groups In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our considerations for overall results were used to responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, the members of support our group opinion.
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent Diageo plc in Balances and transactions with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, assessing the that eliminate on or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an recurring financial consolidation were audited apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are performance of the to a higher materiality.
We required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a group as it best consider a net asset measure material misstatement of the financial statements or a material represents results to reflect the nature of the misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we from underlying company, which primarily have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement operations.
acts as a holding company of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have for the groups investments nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
and holds certain liabilities With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we also on the balance sheet.
considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated Based on the responsibilities described above and our work a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, of materiality allocated across components was between 10 million CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct and 140 million.
Certain components were audited to a local Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report Strategic report and Directors report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the 2017: 7 million for both the group and company as well as audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted report for the year ended 30 June 2018 is consistent with the financial reporting for qualitative reasons.
statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors report.
CA06 Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Independent auditors report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 101 The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity to fraud or error.
of the group In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: for assessing the groups and the companys ability to continue as The directors confirmation on page 66 of the Annual Report that a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless facing the group, including those that would threaten its business the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
statements The directors explanation on page 19 of the Annual Report as Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what the financial statements as a whole are free from material period they have done so and why they consider that period to misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of We have nothing to report having performed a review of the users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and org.
This description forms part of our considering the directors process supporting their statements: auditors report.
checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant Use of this report provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter environment obtained in the course of the audit.
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility Other Code provisions for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly report when: agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The statement given by the directors, on page 67, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced Other required reporting and understandable, and provides the information necessary for Companies Act 2006 exception reporting the members to assess the groups and companys position and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent in our opinion: with our knowledge of the group and company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or The section of the Annual Report on page 69 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The directors statement relating to the companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review not made: or by the auditors.
The company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the Directors remuneration accounting records and returns.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
CA06 Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were Responsibilities for the financial statements appointed by the members on 23 September 2015 to audit the andthe audit financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements three years, covering the years ended 30 June 2016 to 30 June 2018.
As explained more fully in the Responsibility statement set out on page 67, the directors are responsible for the preparation Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable for and on behalf of  LLP framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as London they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial 25 July 2018
