STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF DIRECT LINE INSURANCE GROUP PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements of Direct Line Insurance Group plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: and the related notes 1 to 41 on the Consolidated financial statements and related notes 1 to 17 on the Parent Company financial statements, excluding the capital adequacy disclosures in note 3 calculated in accordance with the Solvency II regime which are marked as unaudited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that no non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key audit matters valuation of insurance reserves: 1 The frequency and severity of bodily injury claims: and 2 The inflation and discount rate assumptions for valuing periodic payment orders PPOs.
valuation of intangible assets: and valuation of investments not held at fair value.
These key audit matters are consistent with those identified in the prior period audit.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 28 million which approximates 5.2% of three-year average profit before tax.
Scoping Our Group audit scoping included two entities being subject to a full scope audit and a further two entities being subject to an audit of specified account balances.
These four entities represent the principal business units and account for 99% of the Groups net assets, 100% of the Groups gross earned premium and 98% of the Groups profit before tax.
Significant There have been no significant changes in our approach.
changes in our approach WWW.
CO. UK 123 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF DIRECT LINE INSURANCE GROUP PLC CONTINUED Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risk and viability statements Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement on page 121 to the financial statements about whether they We confirm that considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their we have nothing identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue to material to report, add or draw do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
attention to We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that in respect of statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our these matters.
knowledge obtained in the audit.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the We confirm that knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation we have nothing of the Directors assessment of the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, material to report, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: add or draw attention to the disclosures on pages 46 and 47 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being in respect of managed or mitigated: these matters.
the Directors confirmation on page 75 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 49 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon.
We do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation of insurance reserves Refer to page 77 Audit Committee Report, page 138 Accounting policies and page 174 Financial statements.
The Groups insurance reserves total 4.0 billion 2017: 4.2 billion.
The determination of the value of the insurance reserves requires significant judgement in the selection of key actuarial methodologies and assumptions.
Small changes in these methodologies or assumptions can materially impact the valuation of these liabilities.
We have identified the following two key areas of focus for our audit given their significance to the Groups result and the level of judgement involved.
Therefore, we have also identified these as potential fraud risk areas.
1 The frequency and severity of large bodily injury claims Key audit matter description The insurance reserve valuation for large bodily injury claims has a significant impact on the Groups results, with the ultimate quantum of large bodily injury claims being driven by a variety of factors.
These factors include the completeness and accuracy of source data, the transparency of any changes in the reporting of large claims, and actuarial assumptions being consistent with emerging data, internal processes and market factors.
As a result of these factors, there is a significant level of estimation uncertainty in the valuation of these claims, which increases the susceptibility of the balance to material misstatement due to error and fraud.
124 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 124 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Furthermore, a key market factor occurring in 2018 was the Civil Liability Act, which came into force on 20 December 2018 after passing Royal Assent.
Going forward this Act will result in the Government determining the Ogden discount rate, which is currently minus 0.75%, with reference to low risk rather than very low or zero risk investments.
The Government will also now conduct regular rate reviews at least every five years.
In response to this legislative change the Group has moved to valuing its lump sum bodily injury reserves using an Ogden discount rate of 0%, rather than minus 0.75%, on the basis that the Civil Liability Act requires the Government to set the discount rate with reference to low risk rather than very low risk investments.
The selection of the new rate required significant judgement by management and has resulted in a reduction in the insurance reserves of 55 million.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We have gained a detailed understanding of the end-to-end claims and reserving process and assessed the design and implementation of selected controls, including peer review of actuarial workings and committees where the key assumptions are challenged.
In order to gain assurance over the completeness and accuracy of source data used in the Groups actuarial calculations and by our in-house actuarial specialists in performing their work, we have tested the operating effectiveness of data reconciliations controls and performed reconciliations on the data back to the financial ledger.
Having done this, we worked with those specialists to: assess and challenge the methodologies and key assumptions, and their underlying rationale, adopted by the Group, including the potential risk of increased claims inflation caused by Brexit: review the estimated impact on reserves of recent paid and incurred claim developments using our in-house reserve software: inspect the Groups actuarial models and perform sensitivity testing and peer benchmarking on key assumptions: assess managements rationale for adopting a best estimate Ogden discount rate of 0%, and challenge its reasonableness in light of market benchmarking: and assess and challenge the methodology of the Groups Ogden sensitivity model.
Key observations We have determined the estimate for the ultimate value of large bodily injury claims to be reasonable.
In making this determination we observed that the frequency and severity assumptions used in determining the ultimate value are reasonable, albeit slightly prudent.
2 The inflation and discount rate assumptions for valuing PPOs Key audit matter description The Group is required to settle a proportion of large bodily injury claims as PPOs rather than lump sum payments.
The valuation of PPOs has a material impact on the financial statements, with these liabilities totalling 875.9 million 2017: 898.7 million on a discounted gross basis as detailed in note 2.
PPOs are sensitive to the choice of inflation and discount rate used, with small rate changes resulting in material valuation differences.
The significant judgement exercised by management in setting the inflation rate of 4% 2017: 4% and discount rate of 4% 2017: 4%, increases the susceptibility of the balance to material misstatement due to error and fraud.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We have gained a detailed understanding over Managements process for setting these assumptions and assessed the design and implementation of key governance controls surrounding the setting of the PPO inflation rate and discount rate.
In addition, we tested the operating effectiveness of a direct and precise business control, performed weekly, over the completeness of the PPO listing: this is a key data input which has a material impact on the PPO assumptions and hence the valuation.
We have worked with our actuarial specialists to: review and challenge the Groups PPO inflation assumption through inquiries with the Actuarial Director, reviewing relevant supporting documentation and benchmarking against market economic data, including the potential risk of increased claims inflation caused by Brexit: review the Groups sensitivity testing on the PPO inflation assumption: review and challenge the selected discount rate with reference to current and future performance of the assets backing the PPO liabilities, taking account of the uncertainty created for investment markets by Brexit: and challenge the consistency of the approach with that used in the 2017 year-end valuation and the appropriateness of maintaining that approach in light of the current economic climate and market benchmarking.
Key observations We have determined that the inflation and discount rate assumptions used in the calculation of the PPO claims reserve are in the middle of a reasonable range.
Given the current low yield environment, and the potential for increased risk of claims inflation in certain Brexit scenarios, we determined that these assumptions continue to require close monitoring going forward.
CO. UK 125 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF DIRECT LINE INSURANCE GROUP PLC CONTINUED Valuation of intangible assets Refer to page 77 Audit Committee Report, page 138 Accounting policies and page 166 Financial statements.
Key audit matter description We have identified a key audit matter over the valuation of intangible assets totalling 354.1 million 2017: 258.8 million as detailed in note 17.
Our key audit matter specifically addresses those intangible assets relating to strategic projects that aim to improve the customer experience, support growth and increase efficiency across the Group.
Having decided to rework certain elements of the capitalised expenditure, which resulted in an impairment charge of 56.9 million in 2017, the Group has progressed in developing the asset with roll out scheduled to commence in 2019.
Whilst this reduces the risk of delivery failure, in comparison to last years audit, until the assets are complete there continues to be a risk of future impairment charges, with the determination of which requiring a significant level of judgement.
As a result of these factors, we continue to identify this as a key audit matter as well as a potential fraud risk.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We assessed the design and implementation of key controls over the impairment of intangible assets.
This included senior management review and approval of the impairment review.
In addition, we performed the following audit procedures: inquired of system integrators and programme managers, and inspected internal reports, system architecture maps and meeting minutes in order to challenge management on which components of the capital expenditure will ultimately be used in the end-state system: engaged our in-house IT consultants to assess the feasibility of the IT architecture in delivering the expected benefits across the Group: and challenged management on the reasonableness of the future cash flows for the assets.
Whilst performing our work we leveraged our knowledge of the system based on our testing over the components of the capital expenditure.
Key observations We have determined that the nil impairment charge is reasonable.
Based on the information available to date we deem the feasibility of successful project delivery and the expected benefits thereof to be reasonable.
Valuation of investments not held at fair value Refer to page 77 Audit Committee Report, page 139 Accounting policies and page 171 Financial statements.
Key audit matter description Investments that are not held at fair value are carried at amortised cost and represent a higher credit risk relative to the majority of DLGs investment portfolio.
Our work primarily focused on the valuation of the Groups commercial real estate loan, infrastructure debt and private placement bond portfolios.
Having recognised a 6 million 2017: 10 million impairment on a non-performing loan in the year, these investments totalled 592.2 million 2017: 589 million and represented 12.5% 2017: 11.7% of the Groups investment portfolio.
The Group satisfies the exemption criteria within IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and has decided to defer the application of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments until the expected effective date of the new insurance contracts standard IFRS 17 on 1 January 2022.
Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, management judgement continues to be required in determining if an incurred loss event has occurred and there is significant uncertainty in determining the fair value of the loans in the instance an event has occurred.
As a result, we identified the valuation of investments not held at fair value as a key audit matter.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We have assessed the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of the key controls that mitigate the risk over the valuation of investments not held at fair value.
Our work included attendance at the year-end impairment review meeting in order to observe the operation of a key management review control.
126 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 126 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition, we performed the following audit procedures: traced a sample of interest payments to bank during the year to test for default or delinquency in interest payments: engaged our in-house complex pricing team to determine an independent fair value of these assets and identify any significant decreases in fair value below book cost: assessed the need for impairment on a collective basis through analysing significant macroeconomic and sector specific developments, such as the impact of Brexit on property valuations, as well as the high street decline: and challenged management on loans of interest where indicators could point to issuer financial difficulty, obtaining evidence to assess whether the position taken by management is reasonable.
Key observations We have determined that the 6 million impairment charge arising on non-performing credit assets is reasonable.
In performing our procedures, we did not note any other indicators of material impairment.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality 28.0 million 2017: 28.0 million.
Basis for Materiality was determined as approximately 5.2% Materiality equates to less than 1% 2017: determining 2017: 5.2% of three-year average profit before tax, 1% of shareholders equity and is capped at materiality excluding the impact of the Ogden discount rate change 90% 2017: 90% of Group materiality.
Rationale for We determined that the critical benchmark for the Group We determined that the critical benchmark the benchmark was average profit before tax.
This measure uses a three-year for the Parent Company was shareholders applied average of profit before tax which we deemed appropriate equity.
This is because the Parent Company due to the inherent volatility of profits in the insurance industry.
is not a trading entity but rather receives We also elected to exclude the impact of the Ogden discount dividend income from its subsidiaries.
rate change on the 2016 results and the subsequent move When determining materiality for the to 0% in 2018 results due to the non-recurring nature of Parent Company, we also considered these events.
the appropriateness of this materiality for We also considered this measure to be suitable having the consolidation of this set of financial compared to other benchmarks: our materiality equates statements to the Groups results.
Group materiality is used for setting audit scope and the assessment of uncorrected misstatements.
Materiality is set for each significant component in line with the components proportion of the chosen benchmark.
This is capped at the lower of 90% of Group materiality and the component materiality determined for a standalone audit.
The main UK insurance trading entity, UK Insurance Limited, which makes up 100% of Group gross earned premium and 73% of Group statutory profit before tax, is scoped to a component materiality of 25.2 million 2017: 25.2 million.
We determine performance materiality at a level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
We have set Group performance materiality at 19.6 million 2017: 19.6 million and the audit testing for UK Insurance Limited is carried out to a performance materiality of 17.6 million 2017: 17.6 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.4 million 2017: 1.4 million for the Group financial statements, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
CO. UK 127 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF DIRECT LINE INSURANCE GROUP PLC CONTINUED An overview of the scope of our audit The scope of our Group audit was determined by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including groupwide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Consistent with the prior period, this resulted in two entities being subject to a full scope audit and a further two were subject to an audit of specified account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations.
All entities within scope of the Group audit are based in the UK.
These four entities represent the principal trading and service operations of the Group and account for 99% 2017: 99% of the Groups net assets, 100% 2017: 100% of the Groups gross earned premium and 98% 2017: 98% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team also performs the audit of the in-scope UK entities.
The Group audit team was responsible for all of the entities listed above, including the Parent Company.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
to report in respect of these matters Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
128 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 128 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit, legal counsel, financial reporting, risk, IT, financial crime and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: a identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: b detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: and c the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations.
discussing among the engagement team and involving relevant internal specialists, including actuarial, tax, IT, valuations and pension specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: the valuation of the insurance reserves as well as the valuation of the intangible assets due to the estimates and judgements exercised by management: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules and tax legislation.
In addition, we considered compliance with the terms of the Groups regulatory solvency requirements when assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified valuation of insurance reserves and valuation of intangible assets as key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report explains these matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters.
Our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing the supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC, PRA and FCA: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
CO. UK 129 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF DIRECT LINE INSURANCE GROUP PLC CONTINUED Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or of these matters.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of We have nothing Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited to report in respect is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Audit tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc on 21 March 2000 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2000 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 19 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2000 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the full extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
COLIN RAWLINGS FCA SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 4 March 2019 130 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 130 DIRECT LINE GROUP 2018 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS
