96 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DIPLOMA PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION In our opinion: Diploma PLCs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of financial position as at 30 September 2018: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow statement, and the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: the accounting policies: and the notes to the financial statements.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 27 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Context In this first year of our audit tenure, our planning procedures involved meetings with Group and local business management, and the Board, to understand the business, its challenges, opportunities and associated risks.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 3.6 million, based on 5% of profit before tax.
Overall Parent Company materiality: 0.7 million, based on 1% of total assets.
We conducted audit work over 23 reporting units across nine countries in which the Group has significant operations The reporting units where we performed an audit of their complete financial information accounted for 79% of Group revenue and 83% of Group profit before tax The Group engagement team performed the audit work on five of the reporting units and visited, in person, two component teams who were responsible for the audit of eight reporting units across two countries.
The visits included attendance at audit clearance meetings and discussions on the audit approach and findings with those local teams For those countries not visited in person we attended their clearance meetings via conference call or video conference We maintained regular contact with the local teams and evaluated the outcome of their audit work Provisions for impairment of inventories Group.
Recoverability of goodwill and the impairment assessment Group.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industries in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Parent Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, enquiries of management, review of certain component auditors work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provisions for impairment of inventories Our audit procedures included understanding and evaluating the Refer to page 45 Financial reporting and significant financial controls and systems related to the inventory provision process, judgements and note 15 Inventories.
together with substantive audit procedures.
The Group holds significant levels of inventory with total The substantive audit procedures performed for each individual inventory, at 30 September 2018, of 82.9m which is recorded component varied, depending upon the component team and the nature of the businesses and the inventory provision methodology, net of a provision of 8.7m.
including the following procedures: There is a risk associated with the valuation of slow moving and excess stock for which each business within the Group provides.
We obtained managements inventory provision and checked the mathematical accuracy of the provision based upon the provision There are different inventory provision methodologies, specific to the individual business, across the Group.
There is significant methodology in place for that component.
management judgement and estimation involved in assessing We tested where applicable and on a sample basis, the accuracy the accuracy of the provision based upon the ageing and of the ageing and demand reports used.
We evaluated the appropriateness of each businesses inventory expected demand for the inventory.
provision methodology and the key assumptions within the Therefore, we have determined that there is a significant risk provision model based upon the nature of the business and its that the inventory provision is not appropriate and therefore inventory and the historic accuracy of the provision compared to actual write-offs.
that inventory is recorded above its net realisable value.
We compared the actual sales value of a sample of inventory items to their book value to confirm that the carrying value of inventory does not exceed its net realisable value.
As the Group engagement team, we were specifically involved in reviewing and assessing the appropriateness of the audit approach for each component in this area.
This satisfied us that sufficient focus was placed on the more judgemental areas and that, whilst complex, the area was well understood and sufficient focus was placed on the risk area.
98 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DIPLOMA PLC CONTINUED REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Risk of impairment of goodwill We evaluated the process by which management prepared its cash Refer to page 45 Financial reporting and significant financial flow forecasts and compared them against the latest Board judgements and note 10 Goodwill.
We evaluated the historical accuracy of the plans, for example by comparing the forecasts used in the prior year The Group has goodwill of 128.5m as at 30 September 2018, model to the actual performance in the current year.
These the most significant asset on the statement of financial procedures enabled us to determine the accuracy of the forecasting position, which is required to be tested for impairment on an process and apply appropriate sensitivities to the cash flows.
Management has allocated the goodwill to three individual cash-generating units CGUs : Life Sciences, Seals We obtained managements goodwill impairment review and Controls.
calculations and checked the mechanical accuracy of the model.
We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill balance We assessed the appropriateness of managements discount rates, and the level of judgement and estimation around the future cash flows and long-term growth rates.
We benchmarked determination of the recoverable amount, being the higher of assumptions against industry and peer group comparators and value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
Recoverable metrics such as country inflation rates.
amounts are based on managements view of the future results and prospects of the business, the appropriate discount rates to Based upon our assessments described above, we challenged be applied and specific risk factors applied to the CGUs.
management on the appropriateness of its calculations by applying our own sensitivity analysis to the forecast cash flows, long-term The key judgements in determining the recoverable amount of growth rates and discount rates to ascertain the extent to which these CGUs relate to the forecast cash flows, long-term growth reasonable changes would, either individually or in aggregate, rates and the discount factor applied.
require an impairment of the goodwill.
We did not consider there to be a significant risk associated with We determined that no impairment charges were required, based any of the individual CGUs due to the continued growth in the on the results of our work.
business in the year and the historic levels of headroom.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is focused on three core sectors: Life Sciences, Seals and Controls with operations primarily geographically located in Canada, the USA, the UK and continental Europe.
Within the aforementioned Sectors are a number of businesses management reporting entities which are consolidated by Group management.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of multiple reporting units representing the operating businesses within these three core sectors.
The reporting units vary in size and we identified 23 reporting units across nine countries in which the Group has significant operations that required an audit of their complete financial information due to their individual size.
The components where we performed an audit of their complete financial information accounted for 83% of the Groups profit before tax, and 79% of the Groups revenue.
Included within these 23 reporting units were five components that were audited by the Group engagement team, including four UK Controls trading businesses and the company which holds the UK pension scheme.
The reporting units, excluding those audited by the Group team, are audited by nine component teams.
The Group engagement team visited two of the nine component teams, who were responsible for the audit of eight reporting units, to meet with local management, attend audit clearance meetings and discuss the audit approach and audit findings.
For those components not visited we attended their clearance meetings either via conference call or video conference.
Our attendance at the clearance meetings, review and discussion of the audit results at overseas locations, together with the additionalprocedures performed at a Group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements asa whole.
Our audit procedures at the Group level included the audit of the consolidation, the goodwill impairment review and certain tax procedures.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 99 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Overall materiality 3.6 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We consider PBT to be an appropriate We believe that total assets is the primary measure for a listed group and one of the key measure used by the shareholders in assessing measures used by the shareholders in the performance of a holding company and is assessing the performance of the Group.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 3.2 million and 0.3 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was less than our allocated component materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 184,000 Groupaudit and 36,000 Parent Company audit as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We have nothing material to add or to draw respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the attention to.
However, because not all future Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in events or conditions can be predicted, this preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going and Parent Companys ability to continue as concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial agoing concern.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to going concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors reportthereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement ofthis other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 100 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DIPLOMA PLC CONTINUED REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Governance section on page 46 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 39 to 42 with respect to the Parent Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 30 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 30 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 65, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 44 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement set out on page 65, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 101 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
uk  This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
APPOINTMENT Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 1 March 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
This is therefore our first year of uninterrupted engagement.
Christopher Burns Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 19 November 2018 102 DIPLOMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 SUBSIDIARIES OF DIPLOMA PLC Registered Registered Office Office address address 1 Life Sciences Abbeychart Limited A 1 Somagen Diagnostics Inc. F HA Wainwright Limited A 1 AMT Electrosurgery Inc. V Hawco Refrigeration Limited A 1 Vantage Endoscopy Inc. V Microtherm UK Limited A 1 Big Green Surgical Company Pty Limited X IS Group Europe Limited A 1 Diagnostic Solutions Pty Limited X Specialty Fasteners Limited A 1 Diploma Healthcare Group NZ Limited Z Specialty Fasteners & Components Limited A 1 Techno-Path Distribution Limited J FSC UK Limited A 1 Abacus dx Pty Limited X FS Cables limited A 2 Abacus dx Limited Z FSC Global Limited A A1-CBISS Limited A Caplink Limited A a1-envirosciences GmbH G Intermediate holding companies 1 a1-Envirosciences Limited A Diploma Holdings PLC A 1 Hitek Limited A Diploma Holdings Inc. C 1 Hitek Group Limited A Pride Limited A Seals Diploma Australia Holdings Limited A HB Sealing Products Inc. D Diploma Canada Holdings Limited A J Royal US, Inc. C Diploma Overseas Limited A HKX Inc. E Napier Group Limited A All Seals Inc. B Williamson, Cliff Limited A RTD Seals Corp. C Newlandglebe Limited A HB Sealing Products Limited W Diploma Germany Holding GmbH H 3 M Seals A S S Diploma Canada Healthcare Inc F 3 M Seals AB T Diploma Australia Healthcare Pty Limited X 2 M Seals UK Limited formerly, M Seals NCL Limited A Diploma Australia Seals Pty Limited X 2 EDCO Seal and Supply Limited A Diploma Tianjin Trading Co. Limited AB 1 Dormant company.
2 These subsidiaries, which are incorporated in England, are exempt from the FPE Seals Limited A requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual 1 A.
Seals Limited A accounts by virtue of section 479A of the Act.
1 3 These subsidiaries are 90% owned, all other subsidiaries are wholly owned.
Swan Seals Aberdeen Limited A FPE Seals BV P All subsidiaries are owned through ordinary shares.
3 Kentek Oy K Registered Office address 3 ZAO Kentek O A 12 Charterhouse Square, London, EC1M 6AX, UK.
Kentek Eesti Ou L C 1201 Orange Street, Ste 600 One Commerce Center, Wilmington, fide 19899, USA.
3 SIA Kentek Latvija M D 17888 67th Court North, Loxahatchee, FL 33470-2525, USA.
UAB Kentek Lietuva N F 3400 First Canadian Centre, 350-7th Avenue SW, Calgary, Alberta T2P 3N9, Canada.
Kubo Tech AG Q G Eichsfelder Strasse 1, 40595, Dsseldorf, Germany.
Kubo Form AG Q I Rotwandweg 5, D-82024, Taufkirchen Mnchen, Germany.
Kubo Tech GmbH R J Fort Henry Business Park, Ballina, Co. Tipperary, Ireland.
West Coast Industrial Supplies Pty Limited Y L Laki tn 16, Kristiine linnaosa, Tallinn, Harju maakond, 10621, Estonia.
West Coast Industrial Supplies New Caledonia SAS AA M Maskavas iela 459, Riga, LV-1063, Latvija.
Bukikio k. Biiuli g. 29, Lithuania.
O Dom 2, Liter B, Proezd Mebeljyj, 197374, St. Petersburg, Russia.
Controls P Industrieterrein Dombosch 1, Elftweg 38, 4941 VP Raamsdonksveer, the Netherlands.
IS-Rayfast Limited A Q Im Langhag 5, 8307 Illnau-Effretikon, Switzerland.
IS-Motorsport, Inc. C S Bybjergvej 13, DK 3060, Espergaerde, Denmark.
1 Amfast Limited A T Industrivagen 17, SE-302, 41 Halmstad, Sweden.
U 10, allee du Vivier, 72700 Allonnes, France.
Clarendon Specialty Fasteners Limited A V 333 Bay St. Suite 2400, Toronto, Ontario M5H 2T6, Canada.
Clarendon Specialty Fasteners, Inc. B W 226 Lockhart Road, Barrie, Ontario, L4N 9G8, Canada.
1 X 46 Albert Street, Preston, Victoria, 3072, Australia.
Clarendon Engineering Supplies Limited A Y 72 Platinum Street, Crestmead, Queensland, 4132, Australia.
1 Cabletec Interconnect Component Systems Limited A Z Office of Bendall & Cant Ltd, Southern Cross Building, 61 High Street, Auckland, NewZealand.
Sommer GmbH H AA 22 Avenue des Gomtres Pionniers, ZAC PANDA 98835, Dumba, New Caledonia.
Filcon Electronic GmbH I AB 18 Fuyuandao Road, Wuqing Development Area, Tianjin, China.
Ascome SARL U Cablecraft Limited A 1 Birch Valley Plastics Limited A 2 Krempfast Limited A 1 Betaduct Limited A Hawco Limited A
