INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements of Drax Group plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the Consolidated income statement: the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the Consolidated and parent company balance sheets: the Consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the Consolidated cash flow statement: the basis of preparation and statement of accounting policies on pages 114 to 116: the related Group notes 2.1 to 8.4: and the related parent company notes 1 to 9 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: matters Presentation of the Consolidated income statement Valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts Estimation of retail unbilled revenue Accounting for the acquisition of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited Scottish Power assets Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 7.6m 2017: 6.8m.
This was determined taking into consideration a number of metrics, but with particular focus on Earnings before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation Adjusted EBITDA which excludes the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements, as this measure is of direct relevance to readers of the financial statements.
Our selected materiality represents approximately 3.0% of Adjusted EBITDA for the year 2017: 2.9% of Adjusted EBITDA.
Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at five locations, being Drax Power, Haven Power, Opus Energy, Drax Biomass and Drax Generation Enterprise Limited.
These were subject to a full scope audit, other than Drax Biomass and Drax Generation Enterprise Limited which were subject to specific audit procedures to support our Group audit opinion.
These five locations represent the principal business units and account for virtually all of the Groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
106 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH CONTINUED Significant The following changes were made to the key audit matters reported in the prior year: changes We have included as a key audit matter the presentation of the Consolidated income statement covering both in our exceptional items and certain remeasurements: approach We have also included the accounting for the acquisition of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited as a new acquisition in the year: and The risk of impairment at Drax Power is no longer a key audit matter given the levels of headroom in both the previous and current year.
In the current year, our Group audit scope was extended to include Drax Generation Enterprise Limited following its acquisition by the Group on 31 December 2018.
Other aspects of our audit approach remain broadly consistent with the prior year.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Going concern We confirm that We have reviewed the directors statement on page 42-43 to the financial statements concerning whether they we have nothing considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements material to and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and companys ability to continue to do so report, add or over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
draw attention to in respect of We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks these matters.
including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the we have nothing knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the material to directors assessment of the Groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required report, add or to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: draw attention to in respect of the disclosures on pages 44-49 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or these matters.
mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 44 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 42 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements for the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We previously identified the risk of asset impairment at Drax Power as a key audit matter reflecting the significant management judgements involved in assessing impairment and the sensitivity of the level of headroom to reasonable changes in assumptions made.
Given the improvements in revenue arising from both commodity prices and other sources of income, the level of headroom within the impairment assessment in the prior year, and the established impairment assessment process in place, we no longer consider this to be a key audit matter.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 107 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC continued PRESENTATION OF THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Key audit matter In the current year, the Group has changed the presentation of its Consolidated income statement set out on page 118 description of the Annual Report.
The Consolidated income statement now segregates Adjusted results from Exceptional items and certain remeasurements the Middle column in arriving at the results for the year.
The prior year Consolidated income statement has been restated on a consistent basis.
Further detail is disclosed in the Groups critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions set out on pages 114 to 116, note 2.7 Certain remeasurements and exceptional items and the Audit Committee report on pages 69 to 74.
The Adjusted results are a critical measure for stakeholders and underpin the Groups segmental analysis and description of business results and therefore the classification of items between Adjusted results and the Middle column is important for users of the accounts.
The key items included within the Middle column are as follows: Remeasurement of certain energy contracts: Asset obsolescence charges: Acquisition and restructuring costs: Debt restructuring costs: and Related tax charges and credits.
The Group has established a policy which governs which items are exceptional and should be recognised in the Middle column.
However, judgement is applied in the application of this policy, and whether the above items meet the definition under the policy to be presented within the Middle column.
This is a key area of audit focus for us.
Certain remeasurements comprise unrealised gains or losses on derivative contracts to the extent that those contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, or hedge accounting is not effective.
Such gains and losses are reclassified into Adjusted results when the related contract leads to a physical sale or purchase.
The effect of excluding certain remeasurements from the Adjusted result is to reflect commodity sales and purchases at contracted prices in those Adjusted results.
There is a risk that adjusted profit measures are misleading and that the principles used to determine the classification as exceptional are not in line with relevant guidance, substantiated or applied on a consistent basis.
This also represents a possible fraud risk in relation to the allocation of items to the Middle column.
How the We assessed the design and implementation of key controls around the presentation of items within either scope of our Adjusted results or the Middle column.
audit responded We evaluated the Groups accounting policy for exceptional items and certain remeasurements against guidance to the key issued by the FRC and European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA regarding the publication of audit matter transparent, unbiased and comparable financial information.
We considered managements rationale for the treatment of exceptional items presented, and performed an independent assessment of the selection and presentation of each item against the Groups accounting policies and relevant regulatory guidance.
We challenged management over the principles used to determine items as exceptional, assessing whether the application of the Groups policy was appropriate and consistent.
For the remeasurement of certain derivative contracts and the recycling of fair value movements to either revenue or cost of sales on realisation, we reviewed relevant accounting literature in order to determine whether the approach adopted was appropriate.
The accounting standards for this are subject to interpretation and are currently being reviewed by the International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretation Committee IFRIC.
However, their draft determination supports the Groups new presentation of the Consolidated income statement.
We reviewed the presentation and disclosure of managements conclusions in the Annual Report & Accounts to assess whether the disclosures are consistent with the Groups policy and relevant accounting standards.
Key observations We are satisfied that the items presented as exceptional and within certain remeasurements in the Financial Statements are materially in compliance with the Groups accounting policies, applicable accounting standards and guidance, and are clearly described to readers of the Annual Report and Accounts.
We are satisfied that the prior year Consolidated income statement has been represented on a basis consistent with the new format adopted for 2018.
The majority of acquisition and restructuring costs relate to the Scottish Power acquisition 21m.
However, there are certain smaller costs incurred in the year which relate to restructuring activities in other areas of the business, and which have been treated as exceptional items, and presented within the Middle column in the Consolidated income statement.
Whilst the treatment of these costs as exceptional is subjective, the costs incurred are not material to the Financial Statements.
108 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information VALUATION OF COMMODITY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS Key audit matter Net Gains on derivative contracts recognised in the Consolidated income statement in the year are 38.4m description 2017: losses of 176.9m, with related derivative assets of 510.6m and liabilities of 151.4m recognised on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2018.
Further detail of the key judgements are disclosed in the Groups critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions set out on pages 114 to 116 and the Audit Committee report on pages 69 to 74.
Section 7 sets out the financial risk management notes.
The Group has exposure to a number of different financial risks including foreign exchange risk and commodity risk, and use a variety of derivative contracts to mitigate these risks, including commodity contracts, floating swap forwards and cross currency swaps.
The valuation of derivative contracts is complex and requires judgement in areas including the selection of appropriate valuation methodologies, and assumptions in respect of future market prices and credit risk factors.
Due to the large amount of data involved in the contract valuations, and the requirement for certain manual adjustments, we have identified a fraud risk relating to the potential for management or employees of the company to value trades inappropriately.
How the We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls related to the scope of our valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts.
audit responded We used our internal financial instrument specialists to test managements key judgements and calculations, to the key including testing a sample of trades undertaken to trade tickets, confirming key contractual terms such as audit matter volumes and contracted prices.
We have assessed the valuation models used by management, including any manual adjustments to determine the fair value of the derivative instruments and performed independent valuations across a sample of both commodity and foreign exchange contracts.
We have analysed the appropriateness of managements forward price curve assumptions by benchmarking these to third party sources and reviewed the consistency of the assumptions used across other areas of the financial statements, such as asset impairment.
We have challenged managements approach and assumptions involved in assessing fair value adjustments such as credit risk, time value of money and spread adjustments.
Key observations From our testing, we are satisfied that the valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts is reasonable.
We consider the valuation models used by management to be appropriate and the forward curve assumptions adopted are within an acceptable range.
ESTIMATION OF RETAIL UNBILLED REVENUE Key audit matter The recognition of retail revenue requires an estimation of customer usage between the date of the last meter reading description and year end, which is known as unbilled revenue.
Across the retail division, unbilled revenue at the balance sheet date amounted to 146.5m 2017: 195m Further detail of the key judgements are disclosed in the Groups critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions set out on pages 114 to 116 and the Audit Committee report on pages 69 to 74.
Accrued income is disclosed in note 3.5.
The method of estimating unbilled revenue is complex and judgemental and requires assumptions for both the volumes of energy consumed by customers and the related value.
We identified a fraud risk in relation to revenue recognition in the retail businesses, in particular to the estimates underpinning unbilled revenue, as these judgemental areas could be manipulated by management to mis-report revenue.
How the We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls related to the scope of our estimation of unbilled revenue.
This included controls over the reconciliation of meter readings provided by the audit responded energy markets, and which are used by management to estimate the power supplied.
We also tested the controls to the key over the price per unit applied in the valuation of unbilled revenue.
audit matter When external market information was not available at the balance sheet date, we obtained and considered managements reconciliation of the volume of power purchased to their calculations of revenue supplied and completed sample tests to check that the December 2018 unbilled revenue amount was subsequently billed.
We also reviewed the aggregate unbilled revenue balance from previous periods to test that the amounts recognised were subsequently billed in line with the values accrued.
Key observations Our retrospective reviews of estimated revenues found that management have historically achieved a high level of accuracy.
We considered the estimates for revenue earned in the year to be appropriate.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 109 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC continued ACCOUNTING FOR THE ACQUISITION OF DRAX GENERATION ENTERPRISE LIMITED Key audit matter On 31 December 2018, the Group acquired Drax Generation Enterprise Limited for 686.9m.
In accordance with IFRS 3 description Business Combinations, management has recognised the identifiable assets and the liabilities at their acquisition date fair values.
Further detail of the key judgements are disclosed in the Groups critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions set out on pages 114 to 116, the Audit Committee report on pages 69 to 74, and the acquisition note at 5.1.
We have identified a key audit matter in relation to the assumptions applied in respect of the Purchase Price Allocation PPA exercise, identifying in particular judgement related to the fair value of property, plant and equipment PP&E, goodwill and any intangible assets arising.
Goodwill of 74.8m has been recognised.
How the We evaluated the design and implementation of key controls related to the acquisition process.
scope of our We tested the acquisition balance sheet and initial fair value adjustments of the acquired businesses including audit responded challenging management with regards to the identification and valuation of PP&E, the recognition of intangible to the key assets and identification of liabilities.
This was performed by assessing the adjustments applied to the acquired audit matter assets and liabilities and determining whether these have been appropriately recorded at fair value.
We considered the expertise and approach taken by third party experts engaged by management to perform the PPA exercise.
We evaluated the valuation work undertaken to support the acquisition, and whether contradictory evidence to the valuations adopted existed.
We also used our internal valuation specialists to review the third party report and identify areas for particular focus in our work.
Key observations Based on the work performed, we are satisfied that the acquired businesses have been appropriately accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Initial judgements in valuing PP&E in particular have been applied, including in the determination of depreciated replacement cost values.
The disclosures in note 5.1 make clear that the valuation is preliminary and there could be further amendments as the valuations are finalised, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 7.6m 2017: 6.8m 4.6m 2017: 4.1m Basis for We have determined materiality by considering a range We have capped materiality at 60% of the determining of possible benchmarks but with a particular focus on materiality identified for the Group.
This is a materiality Adjusted EBITDA, which excludes the impact of exceptional judgement and reflects the significant value of items and certain measurements, together with profit investments held on the balance sheet at the year before and after interest and tax as well as the scale of the end 717.0m.
balance sheet and the overall size of the business.
Our selected materiality represents a approximately 3.0% of Adjusted EBITDA for the year 2017: 2.9% of Adjusted EBITDA Rationale for When determining materiality, we have considered the size When determining materiality, we considered the the benchmark and scale of the business and the nature of its operations.
net assets of the company as its principal activity applied We have also considered which benchmarks would be of is as an investment holding company for the Group.
relevance to the users of the financial statements and those applied to the audit of similar businesses.
We consider that Adjusted EBITDA is of particular relevance to users of the financial statements and is a key measure of performance used by the Group, and excludes volatility caused in particular by the remeasurements of derivative contracts.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.4m 2017: 0.3m for the parent company and Group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
110 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at five locations, being Drax Power, Haven Power, Opus Energy, Drax Biomass and Drax Generation Enterprise Limited.
These represent the principal business units of the Group and account for virtually all of the Groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
This is in line with 2017, other than Drax Generation Enterprise Limited which is new in the year.
A full scope audit was performed for Drax Power, Haven Power and Opus Energy.
For Drax Generation Enterprise Limited and Drax Biomass, specific audit procedures were performed in order to support the Group audit opinion.
This scope was selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at all locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 3.0m to 5.3m 2017: 3.5m to 5.2m.
At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
During 2018 the Senior Statutory Auditor visited Drax Power, and other senior team members also visited Drax Generation Enterprise Limited, Opus Energy and Haven Power.
The Senior Statutory Auditor visited Drax Biomass in the US in 2017.
In previous years, a US component team performed the audit of Drax Biomass.
In the current year, the Group audit team has performed this audit, following a restructuring of Drax Biomass resulting in more of the finance function being controlled from the UK.
OTHER INFORMATION The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included We have nothing in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
to report in respect of Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise these matters explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors on page 104 that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee on pages 69 to 74 does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement on page 58 required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 111 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DRAX GROUP PLC continued AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
EXTENT TO WHICH THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team including all component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, pensions, IT and financial instrument specialists, regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified the potential for possible fraud risk in the following areas: the impairment of fixed assets, the valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts, the cut off risk for unbilled and billed revenue, the presentation of the Consolidated income statement and the use of working capital transactions to potentially enhance cashflows: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, Tax legislation, and Regulations established by regulators in the key markets in which the Group operates, including the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified the presentation of the Consolidated income statement, valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts and estimation of retail unbilled revenue as key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the audit committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC: in addressing the risk of fraud in the impairment of fixed assets, we have challenged managements underlying assumptions and future cash flow forecasts, benchmarked key market related assumptions including future commodity prices, support mechanisms and discount rates against external data where available, and run sensitivity analysis to assess whether an impairment would be required if a range of more conservative assumptions were adopted: in addressing the risk of fraud in revenue recognition, we have performed focussed testing on trades close to the year end combined with analytical review procedures to assess accuracy and completeness of revenue recognised: in addressing the risk of fraud in the use of working capital transactions, we have challenged management on the rationale for all transactions entered into and reviewed the accounting treatments adopted by management against the specific contractual terms and arrangements associated with each individual transaction and reviewed the related disclosures in the financial statements: and 112 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: to report in respect of these matters we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors to report in respect remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in of these matters agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 14 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2005 to 2018, inclusive.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
James Leigh FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 25 February 2019 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 113
