Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of DS Smith Plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 April 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of DS Smith Plc the parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent Company balance sheets: the consolidated and parent Company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated cash flow statement: the related notes 1 to 34 to the consolidated financial statements: and the related notes 1 to 15 to the parent company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that, with one exception, no non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were provided to the Group or parent Company.
This one exception related to immaterial payroll services provided to an insignificant newly acquired overseas subsidiary not audited by us.
It was concluded in agreement with the Audit Committee that this one exception did not impact upon our integrity, objectivity and independence see page 67 for further information.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach The key audit risks that we identified in the current year were: Key audit matters classification and presentation of adjusting items: taxation: and acquisition accounting.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 18m which was determined on the basis of Materiality profit before tax and adjusting items.
Our full scope audit procedures provided coverage at the Groups key locations accounting for 59% 2016 17: 55% Scoping of revenue and 63% 2016 17: 55% of the profit before tax and adjusting items.
Component auditors performed procedures on key audit matters and material balances for other locations that provided coverage over 22% 2016 17: 33% of revenue and 18% 2016 17: 29% of the profit before tax and adjusting items.
Together our procedures on key audit matters and material balances covered 81% 2016 17: 88% of revenue and 81% 2016 17: 84% of profit before tax and adjusting items.
During 2017 18 the Group undertook a material acquisition in the US which required management judgement in Significant determining the fair value of intangible assets, goodwill and other assets and liabilities in the opening balance sheet.
changes in Therefore, we have identified acquisition accounting as a new key audit matter for the current year.
our approach 83 Annual report & accounts 2018 | dssmith.
com 83 Independent Auditors report to the members of DS Smith Plc continued Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 1 a to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing to report, add or draw attention to in relation to these matters.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 40 -45 that describe the principal risks and explains how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 41 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Classification and presentation of adjusting items Key audit matter description The presentation and consistency of costs and income within adjusting items in the income statement is a key determinant in the assessment of the quality of the Groups earnings before adjusting items and also presents the opportunity for management bias in the presentation of results.
Management judgement is required in determining whether an item should be presented as adjusting based on the size, nature and incidence of the item.
Additionally this is an area that attracts greater scrutiny from the financial reporting regulator.
For the year ended 30 April 2018, the Group incurred net adjusting items of 88 million.
Refer to note 4 for details of adjusting items in the year and note 1 x for managements policy for identifying adjusting items.
The classification and presentation of adjusting items is also considered to be significant matter for the Audit Committee page 65.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We considered the appropriateness and classification of the items which are included within adjusting items by testing a sample and agreeing them back to supporting documentation.
We have reviewed the appropriateness of the adjusting items recorded in accordance with managements policy on adjusting items and the latest guidance from the FRC and the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA.
We have reviewed the quality of adjusted earnings as a result of the impact of the items above.
We reviewed the related disclosure in the Group financial statements and assessed consistency with the prior period and current market best practice.
Key observations We are satisfied that the amounts classified as adjusting items are in accordance with the Groups accounting policy and the related disclosure of these items in the financial statements is appropriate.
0 84 Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of DS Smith Plc continued Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Taxation Going concern Key audit matter description We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 1 a to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the The value of the tax provisions recorded in respect of a number of uncertain tax positions require judgement in respect of the likely going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability outcome of negotiations with various tax authorities.
Refer to note 1 w for managements process for estimating and recording tax to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
provisions and note 7 for further detail in respect to the range of possible outcomes with regards to those uncertain tax positions.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter 9.8.
We worked with our tax audit specialists, including those in required local jurisdictions, to challenge the estimates and judgements made by management when calculating the income tax payable in each territory and the associated provisions held.
Specifically, we have We confirm that we have nothing to report, add or draw attention to in relation to these matters.
reviewed the correspondence with the taxation authorities in significant locations, as well as reviewing the support or opinions received from external counsel or other advisors where management has utilised such opinions to appraise the likely outcome of technical tax Principal risks and viability statement treatments and in assessing the reasonableness of the provisions made.
Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the Key observations course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability We are satisfied that the assumptions used in calculating the tax charge and recording the associated tax provisions are appropriate.
to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 40 -45 that describe the principal risks and explains how they are being managed or mitigated: Acquisition accounting the Directors confirmation on page 41 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those Key audit matter description that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or The Group acquired Interstate Resources Inc IRI during the year for 772m.
The judgements used in determining the value of goodwill 581m and intangible assets 258m and the allocation between these assets could, if performed inaccurately, lead to a material the Directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and misstatement.
why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will There is significant judgement and complexity involved in the allocation of excess consideration over net assets of the acquiree between be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures the fair value of the intangible assets and remaining goodwill.
For the fair value of intangible assets, this includes estimates for growth drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
rates, margins, discount rates and retention rates.
6R 3 is Management must exercise judgement to accurately measure the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date.
materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Note 1 z to the financial statements discusses this further.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We obtained and reviewed the purchase agreements and performed the procedures to assess whether the transaction has been Key audit matters accounted for appropriately in accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of We have obtained managements calculations for the accounting for the acquisition and we checked the mathematical accuracy of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
We also assessed the adjustments to assets and liabilities in order to bring them to their fair value.
We have held These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and discussions with management in order to challenge the completeness of these adjustments and have also corroborated these against independent valuation reports.
directing the efforts of the engagement team.
In order to assess the accuracy of the acquired intangible assets valuation, we have reviewed the methodology applied in managements These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we calculation and challenged the assumptions behind the calculation.
We have involved our own internal experts to assist in our assessment.
do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We have reviewed the disclosures included within note 30 of the consolidated financial statements.
Key observations Classification and presentation of adjusting items We have satisfied ourselves that the valuation of assets and liabilities associated with these acquisitions is appropriate, that they have been recorded at their fair value and have been disclosed and accounted for appropriately.
Key audit matter description The presentation and consistency of costs and income within adjusting items in the income statement is a key determinant in the Our application of materiality assessment of the quality of the Groups earnings before adjusting items and also presents the opportunity for management bias in the We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of presentation of results.
Management judgement is required in determining whether an item should be presented as adjusting based on a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in the size, nature and incidence of the item.
evaluating the results of our work.
The Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: classification and presentation of adjusting items is also considered to be significant matter for the Audit Committee page 65.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements We considered the appropriateness and classification of the items which are included within adjusting items by testing a sample and agreeing them back to supporting documentation.
18 million 2016 17: 16 million 7 million 2016 17: 8 million Materiality We have reviewed the appropriateness of the adjusting items recorded in accordance with managements policy on adjusting items and Materiality has been determined as approximately 5% of Parent Company materiality equates to less than 1% the latest guidance from the FRC and the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA.
We have reviewed the quality of adjusted Basis for earnings as a result of the impact of the items above.
profit before tax and adjusting items.
This is consistent with 2016 17: less than 1% of net assets, and is capped determining We reviewed the related disclosure in the Group financial statements and assessed consistency with the prior period and current market prior year.
The materiality equates to less than 1% 2016 17: at 40% 2016 17: 50% of Group materiality.
less than 1% of revenue from continuing operations and Key observations less than 1% 2016 17: less than 1% of net assets.
We are satisfied that the amounts classified as adjusting items are in accordance with the Groups accounting policy and the related We exclude the effect of adjusting items to provide a stable Parent Companys materiality is determined based on net Rationale for disclosure of these items in the financial statements is appropriate.
basis for materiality, as these items are expected to be assets of the Company.
The parent Company does not the benchmark volatile year on year and profit before tax and adjusting items carry out trading activities and therefore net assets are applied is a key metric for users of the accounts and is consistent the key metric for the users of the financial statements.
with the Groups internal and external reporting.
com 85 Independent Auditors report to the members of DS Smith Plc continued We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 750,000 2016 17: 650,000 for the Group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at twelve components 2016 17: nine located in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, the United States, Spain, Austria and Romania.
These twelve components represent the principal business units within the Groups key reportable segments and accordingly provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The Group audit team takes an active part in the conduct of the audits at these components and follows a programme of planned site visits that is designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the full scope components or attends close out meetings on a rotational basis.
These components accounted for 59% 2016 17: 55% of revenue and 63% 2016 17: 55% of profit before tax and adjusting items.
For the remaining locations within our audit scope, the component auditor performed audit procedures on the key audit matters and material balances and provided reporting to the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team held discussions with the local audit team in the current year.
These remaining locations accounted for 22% 2016 17: 33% of revenue and 18% 2016 17: 29% of profit before tax and adjusting items.
Together the procedures provided coverage on key audit matters and material balances covering 81% 2016 17: 88% of revenue and 81% 2016 17: 84% of profit before tax and adjusting items.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of significant risks and material balances.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
2 86 Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of DS Smith Plc continued Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 750,000 2016 17: 650,000 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, for the Group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
An overview of the scope of our audit Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at twelve components 2016 17: nine located www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, the United States, Spain, Austria and Romania.
These twelve components represent the Use of our report principal business units within the Groups key reportable segments and accordingly provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The Group audit team takes an active part in the conduct of the audits at these work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors components and follows a programme of planned site visits that is designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the member of the Group audit team visits each of the full scope components or attends close out meetings on a rotational basis.
These Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
components accounted for 59% 2016 17: 55% of revenue and 63% 2016 17: 55% of profit before tax and adjusting items.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements For the remaining locations within our audit scope, the component auditor performed audit procedures on the key audit matters and material Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 balances and provided reporting to the Senior Statutory Auditor.
These remaining locations accounted for 22% 2016 17: 33% of revenue In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. and 18% 2016 17: 29% of profit before tax and adjusting items.
Together the procedures provided coverage on key audit matters and material balances covering 81% 2016 17: 88% of revenue and 81% In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: 2016 17: 84% of profit before tax and adjusting items.
the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
or audit of significant risks and material balances.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the Other information audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other Matters on which we are required to report by exception than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to branches not visited by us: or be materially misstated.
the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
include where we conclude that: We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Other matters position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the shareholders on 13 October 2006 to audit the financial Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters statements for the year ended 30 April 2007 and subsequent financial periods.
Following a competitive tender process, we were reappointed communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or as auditor for the year ended 30 April 2014 and subsequent financial years.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the renewals and reappointments of the firm is 12 years, covering the years ended 30 April 2007 to 30 April 2018.
Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Governance Code.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Responsibilities of Directors Ian Waller As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Senior Statutory Auditor statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent Companys ability to continue as a 17 June 2018 going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
