Independent Auditors Report TO THE MEMBERS OF DUNELM GROUP PLC Basis for opinion Report on the audit of the financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International statements Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Opinion Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described In our opinion, Dunelm Group Plcs group financial statements in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial and parent company financial statements the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit statements : evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
z give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2018 and of the Independence groups profit and the groups and the parent companys We remained independent of the group in accordance cash flows for the 52 week period the period then with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit ended: of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the z have been properly prepared in accordance with FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent in accordance with these requirements.
companys financial statements, as applied in accordance To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard z have been prepared in accordance with the requirements were not provided to the group or the parent company.
of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group Other than those disclosed in the Audit and Risk Committee financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation Report, we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the parent company in the period from 2 July 2017 to 30 We have audited the financial statements, included within June 2018. the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and parent company statements of financial position as at 30 June 2018: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company statements of cash flows, and the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity for the 52 week period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Our audit approach Overview z Overall group materiality: 5.1 million 2017: 5.5 million, based on 5% of profit before taxation after adjusting for exceptional items Materiality z Overall parent company materiality: 1.2 million 2017: 1.2 million, based on 0.5% of total assets z The group is structured with one segment which comprises a consolidation of seven legal entities Audit scope z We conducted an audit of the complete financial information of six of these entities, together with additional procedures performed, including over the Group consolidation.
These accounted for 100% revenue, 100% of profit before tax and 100% of net assets Areas z Inventory provisions Group of focus z Presentation of exceptional items Group corporate.
com Stock code: DNLM 106 Financials There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures The scope of our audit described above and the further removed non-compliance As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the become aware of it.
directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved We did not identify any key audit matters relating to making assumptions and considering future events that are irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also inherently uncertain.
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a framework applicable to the group and the industry in which risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including Key audit matters fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and significant Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the professional judgement, were of most significance in the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud audit of the financial statements of the current period and is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from include the most significant assessed risks of material error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the give rise to a material misstatement in the group and parent audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
company financial statements, including, but not limited to, These matters, and any comments we make on the results Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and UK Tax legislation.
of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a documentation, review of correspondence with regulators, separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list review of board minutes and enquiries of management.
of all risks identified by our audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER We tested the inputs to the provision calculation, including Inventory provisions the classification of inventory and sales data for 0-26 weeks, Inventory represents a significant asset on the groups to reports from the buying department, which is segregated balance sheet and is carried at the lower of cost and net from the finance department, and found them to be realisable value NRV.
The determination of the NRV consistent.
This also included testing the average cost of provision involves judgement in assessing slow moving inventory by agreeing the inputs to source documentation and obsolete inventory.
The groups accounting policy is to and testing freight and duty costs.
We also re-performed determine a provision based upon an analysis of the number the weeks cover calculation, identifying no exceptions.
We of weeks cover of inventory i. e. number of weeks sales challenged the expected realisable value of inventory by held in inventory based upon an average of the previous reference to the historical experience of selling inventory 26 weeks of sales.
Provisions are recorded according to at below cost and managements intended plans for future type of inventory, the number of weeks cover, certain routes of clearance.
We found that the provision rates classifications, such as whether inventory is a continuity were consistent with the evidence obtained, based on past line or discontinued, and managements assessment of the activity, and appropriately applied.
expected realisable value for each category of inventory.
We tested items which have been presented as exceptional Presentation of exceptional items to determine whether they are one off in nature and nonThe ongoing integration of the Worldstores group, acquired recurring in line with group policy.
on 28 November 2016, has resulted in further costs considered to be exceptional in nature during FY18.
As a We have understood the costs which management have result of the post acquisition assessment of the Worldstores deemed exceptional and challenged the likeliness of group, asset disposal impairments, accelerated whether these will occur again.
amortisation and inventory write offs have been treated We have challenged and tested whether there are other as exceptional items, as well as associated integration and costs which should be classified as exceptional and have redundancy costs.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 107 Independent Auditors Report CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF DUNELM GROUP PLC The audits of these six legal entities, together with the How we tailored the audit scope additional procedures performed at the group level, including We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we over the group consolidation, gave us the evidence we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on needed for our opinion on the group financial statements as the financial statements as a whole, taking into account a whole.
the structure of the group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which Materiality they operate.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for The group is structured with one segment.
These, together with qualitative considerations, statements are a consolidation of seven legal entities within helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the this segment, comprising the groups operating business and nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the centralised functions.
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and identified one legal entity: Dunelm Soft Furnishings Limited, in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
which, in our view, required an audit of its complete financial information due to its financial significance to the group.
In addition, we also conducted the statutory audits of a further five non-significant legal entities such that the audit work was complete prior to finalisation of the audit of the group financial statements, thereby providing further evidence in support of our group opinion.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Overall materiality 5.1 million 2017: 5.5 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation after adjusting for 0.5% of total assets.
Rationale for We have applied this benchmark, a generally We have applied this benchmark, a generally benchmark applied accepted auditing practice, as we believe this is accepted auditing practice, as we believe this is the the key measure used by the shareholders in key measure used by the shareholders in evaluating evaluating the performance of the group.
the performance of the parent company.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.06 million and 4.8 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.25 million group audit 2017: 0.25 million and 0.25 million parent company audit 2017: 0.25 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
com Stock code: DNLM 108 Financials Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: REPORTING OBLIGATION OUTCOME We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial attention to.
However, because not all future statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to events or conditions can be predicted, this adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statement is not a guarantee as to the groups statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties and parent companys ability to continue as a to the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going going concern.
concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Strategic Report and Directors Report Reporting on other information In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course The other information comprises all of the information in of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report the Annual Report other than the financial statements and and Directors Report for the period ended 30 June 2018 our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible is consistent with the financial statements and has been for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
statements does not cover the other information and, CA06 accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group of assurance thereon.
and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material In connection with our audit of the financial statements, misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
our responsibility is to read the other information and, CA06 in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our Corporate Governance Statement knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to Report on pages 50 to 61 about internal controls and risk perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material management systems in relation to financial reporting misstatement of the financial statements or a material processes and about share capital structures in compliance misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance we have performed, we conclude that there is a material and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR misstatement of this other information, we are required is consistent with the financial statements and has been to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group Corporate Governance Report, we also considered whether and parent company and their environment obtained in the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 the course of the audit, we did not identify any material have been included.
CA06 Based on the responsibilities described above and our work In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Report on pages 50 to 61 with respect to the parent Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain companys corporate governance code and practices and opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies UK unless otherwise stated.
and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a Corporate Governance Report has not been prepared by the parent company.
CA06 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 109 Independent Auditors Report CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF DUNELM GROUP PLC The directors assessment of the prospects of Other Code Provisions the group and of the principal risks that would We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group report when: We have nothing material to add or draw attention to z The statement given by the directors, on page 103, that regarding: they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be z The directors confirmation on page 34 of the Annual fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of information necessary for the members to assess the the principal risks facing the group, including those that groups and parent companys position and performance, would threaten its business model, future performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent solvency or liquidity with our knowledge of the group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit z The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or z The section of the Annual Report on page 63 describing mitigated the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit z The directors explanation on page 34 of the Annual Committee Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they z The directors statement relating to the parent companys consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, the group will be able to continue in operation and under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their Directors Remuneration assessment, including any related disclosures drawing In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and Responsibilities for the financial statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
statements and the audit Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the considering whether the statements are consistent with the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a company and their environment obtained in the course of the true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such audit.
Listing Rules internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
com Stock code: DNLM 110 Financials Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Appointment financial statements Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about we were appointed by the directors on 14 January 2014 to whether the financial statements as a whole are free from audit the financial statements for the year ended 28 June material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
uninterrupted engagement is 5 years, covering the years Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is ended 28 June 2014 to 30 June 2018. not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are for and on behalf of considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,  LLP they could reasonably be expected to influence the Chartered Accountants economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these and Statutory Auditors financial statements.
Birmingham A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the 12 September 2018 financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: z we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or z adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or z certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or z the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 111
