INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EASYJET PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described In our opinion, easyJet plcs Consolidated Accounts and Company Accounts the financial statements : intheAuditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to ofthe Companys affairs as at 30 September 2018 and provide a basis for our opinion.
ofthe Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys Independence cashflows for the year then ended: We remained independent of the Group in accordance have been properly prepared in accordance with withthe ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs ofthefinancial statements in the UK, which includes the asadopted by the European Union and, as regards FRCsEthicalStandard, as applicable to listed public interest theCompanys Accounts, as applied in accordance entities, and wehave fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities withtheprovisions of the Companies Act 2006: and inaccordance with these requirements.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard Consolidated Accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
were not provided to the Group or the Company.
We have audited the financial statements, included Other than those disclosed in the Corporate governance withintheAnnual Report and Accounts the Annual report on page 84 wehave provided no non-audit services to Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company the Group ortheCompany in the period from 1 October 2017 statements of financial position as at 30 September 2018: to 30September 2018. theConsolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and Our audit approach Company statements of cash flows, and the Consolidated The Group operates through the Company and its nine andCompany statements of changes in equity for the year subsidiary undertakings of which six are trading as set then ended: and the notes to the Accounts, which include outonpage 153 and the Consolidated Accounts are a adescription of the significant accounting policies.
The accounting for these entities is largely centralised in the UK and our audit scope Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the comprises an audit of the financial information for five of AuditCommittee.
thetrading subsidiaries and the Company.
These procedures gave us the evidence that we needed for our opinion on the Consolidated Accounts as a whole.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 28.8 million 2017: 19.3 million, based on 5% of headline profit before tax.
Overall Company materiality: 26.2 million 2017: 19.3 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Materiality Audit scope The Group operates through the Company and its nine subsidiaries: and the Consolidated Accounts are a consolidation of these entities.
The accounting for these entities, along with the Audit scope Group consolidation, is largely centralised in the UK.
Our audit scope comprises an audit of the financial information of five of the trading subsidiaries and the Company.
Area of Key audit matters focus Aircraft maintenance provision Group.
Fair value of derivative instruments Group and Company.
Goodwill and landing rights impairment assessment Group.
Classification of non-headline items Group.
The scope of our audit We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality andassessed the risks of material misstatement in the itoperates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including financialstatements.
In particular, we looked at where theDirectors made subjective judgements, for example fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the inrespectof significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, areinherently uncertain.
as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
com ACCOUNTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EASYJET PLC CONTINUED We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise We did not identify any key audit matters relating to toamaterial misstatement in the Group and Company irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we financialstatements, including, but not limited to, Companies alsoaddressed the risk of management override of internal Act 2006, the Listing Rules, EU Emissions Trading Scheme, controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether UKtax legislation, Employment regulation, Health and Safety there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented regulation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable arisk of material misstatement due to fraud.
to significant territories in which easyJet operates.
Our Key audit matters testsincluded, but were not limited to, audit of the financial Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors statement disclosures, enquiries of management and easyJets professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit in-house legal representatives, review of correspondence with of the financial statements of the current period and include regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, and the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: auditprocedures described above and the further removed the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events of the engagement team.
These matters, andany comments we and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed likely we would become aware of it.
inthe context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, andwe do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This isnot a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE PROVISION GROUP The Group operates aircraft which are owned or held under We evaluated the maintenance provision model and tested finance or operating lease arrangements and incurs liabilities the calculations therein.
This included assessing the process by for maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under which the variable factors within the provision are estimated, operating leases during the term of the lease.
These arise evaluating the reasonableness of the assumptions, testing the fromlegal and contractual obligations relating to the input data and re-performing calculations.
conditionof the aircraft when it is returned to the lessor.
In particular, we challenged the key assumptions using the Maintenance provisions of 392 million for aircraft Groups internal data, such as business plans and maintenance maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under contract terms and pricing.
We also performed sensitivity operating leases were recorded in the accounts at analysis around the key drivers of the model.
We found no 30September 2018. material exceptions from these assessments and comparisons.
At each balance sheet date, the calculation of the Having ascertained the magnitude of movements in those key maintenance provision includes a number of variable factors assumptions, that either individually or collectively would be and assumptions including: likely utilisation of the aircraft: required for the provision to be misstated, we considered the theexpected cost of the heavy maintenance check at the likelihood of such movements arising and any impact on the time itis expected to occur: the condition of the aircraft: overall level of aircraft maintenance provisions recorded in the andthe lifespan of life-limited parts.
Our assessment as to likelihood and magnitude did not identify any material exceptions.
We focused on this area because of an inherent level of management judgement required in calculating the amount ofprovision needed as a result of the complex and subjective elements around these variable factors and assumptions.
FAIR VALUE OF DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS GROUP AND COMPANY The Group and Company hold significant net funds, We evaluated and assessed the processes, procedures comprising cash and money market deposits and borrowings andcontrols in respect of treasury and other management through bank loans and finance lease obligations.
Given the functions which directly impact the relevant account balances nature of the business, the Group and Company also make and transactions.
We tested managements year end account use of derivative financial instruments.
The results of this work allowed us to areused to hedge transaction currency risk comprising fuel, focus on substantiating the year-end positions recorded in the leasing and maintenance US dollar payments, jet fuel price accounts.
We did not identify any material exceptions.
risk, and Euro and Swiss Franc revenue receipts.
We independently obtained third-party confirmations At 30 September 2018, cash and money market deposits fromcounterparties of the year end positions.
We assessed amounted to 1,384 million, borrowings were 977 million, the appropriateness of hedge accounting for the derivative derivative financial assets amounted to 395 million and financial instruments and tested, using independent dataderivative financial liabilities were 31 million.
We focus feeds, the fair values being ascribed to those instruments at onthese balances because of their materiality to the the year end.
These procedures did not identify any financialposition of the Group and Company, the volume materialexceptions.
oftransactions passing through the respective accounts We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures in andthenumber of counterparties involved.
theaccounts in respect of both non-derivative and derivative financial instruments.
Based on our work, we considered the disclosures to be appropriate.
112 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter EU 261 PROVISION GROUP The Group records a provision for EU 261 compensation We have understood the processes, procedures and controls payable in respect of flight delays and cancellations.
At in place in respect of the EU 261 provision balance and 30September 2018 this provision was 39 million.
assessed key account reconciliation processes.
We focused on this area because there is an inherent level of We tested and challenged the reasonableness of the key complexity in managements estimate of this provision owing assumptions underlying the EU 261 provisions which included: to its uncertain nature.
passenger claim history: levels of passenger claims: flight disruptions: no-show passengers: and time periods over which the assessment is made.
We tested the input data of the EU 261 provisions, reperformed the underlying calculations and performed sensitivity analysis over the key drivers of the valuation of theprovision.
We found no material exceptions from theseprocedures.
Having ascertained the magnitude of movements in those keyassumptions, that either individually or collectively would be required for the provision to be materially misstated, we considered the likelihood of such movements arising and any impact on the overall level of judgmental provisions recorded in the accounts.
Our assessment as to the likelihood and magnitude did not identify any material exceptions.
GOODWILL AND LANDING RIGHTS IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT GROUP Goodwill arises from acquisitions in previous years and has We evaluated and challenged the future cash flow forecasts anindefinite expected useful life.
Landing rights which are ofthe CGU, and the process by which they were drawn up, intangible assets are considered by management to have and tested the underlying value in use calculations.
In doing anindefinite useful life as they will remain available for use this, we compared the forecast to the latest Board-approved forthe foreseeable future.
Goodwill and landing rights are plans, and compared prior year budget to actual data in order tested for impairment at least annually at the cash-generating to assess the quality of the forecasting process.
The Group has one CGU, being its route We also challenged the key assumptions for fuel prices, network, to which all goodwill and landing rights relate.
At exchange rates and long-term growth rates in the forecasts 30September 2018, the aggregate value of goodwill and bycomparing them to economic and industry forecasts and, landing rights amounted to 494 million.
for the discount rate, by assessing the cost of capital for the We focused on this assessment as the impairment test Company and comparable organisations.
We found no involves a number of subjective judgements and estimates material exceptions from our work.
bymanagement, many of which are forward-looking.
These We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions estimates include key assumptions surrounding the strategic above to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions five year plan, fuel prices, exchange rates, long-term economic that either individually or collectively would be required for the growth rates and discount rates.
goodwill and landing rights to be impaired.
We found no material exceptions from this analysis.
com ACCOUNTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EASYJET PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter PRESENTATION OF NON-HEADLINE ITEMS AIR BERLIN TRANSACTION AND COMMERCIAL IT PLATFORM CHARGE GROUP The financial statements include certain items which are We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups accounting disclosed as non-headline.
The nature of these non-headline policy for the recognition of non-headline items with reference items are explained within the Group accounting policies to the applicable accounting standards.
In the current year, non-headline items include each of the items disclosed as non-headline met the criteria twomaterial amounts relating to the costs incurred with the set out in the accounting policy to confirm that items were integration of assets acquired from Air Berlin operations at appropriately classified.
Tegel airport 40 million, and the charge relating to the Air Berlin commercial IT platform which will no longer be used by the We have reviewed the asset purchase agreement, vouched business 65 million.
cash payments made for the assets and concluded that the We focused on this area because items classified as nonaccounting for the transaction is appropriate.
We have agreed headline require judgement by the Directors as to whether a sample of costs incurred to invoice and other supporting theitems meet the definition in the Groups accounting policy documentation to confirm the accuracy of the amounts and because of the material nature of the costs associated recorded and their appropriate classification as non-headline.
with Air Berlin and the commercial IT platform charge.
These procedures did not identify any material exceptions.
Commercial IT platform We have discussed the IT development strategy with management to confirm that the charge recognised is in relation to assets the business will no longer use and their associated commitments.
We have agreed a sample of theunderlying costs to supporting evidence to confirm theaccuracy of the amounts recognised within the charge.
Wehave challenged the key assumptions made bymanagement in assessing the elements of the commercial ITplatform that will be retained.
114 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extentof our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect ofmisstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group Accounts Company Accounts 28.8 million 2017: 19.3 million 26.2 million 2017: 19.3 million OVERALL MATERIALITY 5% of headline profit before tax 1% of total assets HOW WE DETERMINED IT We have applied this benchmark, We have applied this benchmark, RATIONALE FOR agenerally accepted auditing agenerally accepted auditing practice, BENCHMARK APPLIED practice, inthe absence of indicators inthe absence of indicators that that analternative benchmark would analternative benchmark would beappropriate.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 2,000,000 and 27,360,000.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to it misstatements identified during our audit above 1.4 million Group audit 2017: 1 million and 1.3 million Company audit 2017: 1 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
toaddor draw attention to in respect of the Directors However, because not all future events or conditions can be statementin the financial statements about whether the predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
concernbasis ofaccounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date ofapproval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 ismaterially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in theaudit.
com ACCOUNTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EASYJET PLC CONTINUED In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the the audit, the information given in the Corporate governance statement on pages 59 to 86 with respect to the Companys Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their theother information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to In connection with our audit of the financial statements, report if a corporate governance statement has not been ourresponsibility is to read the other information and, in prepared by the Company.
CA06 doingso, consider whether the other information is materially The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially or liquidity of the Group misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the The Directors confirmation on page 110 of the Annual financial statements or a material misstatement of the other Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we the principal risks facing the Group, including those that conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other would threaten its business model, future performance, information, we are required to report that fact.
We have solvency or liquidity.
nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
With respect to the Strategic report, Directors report and Corporate governance statement, we also considered whether The Directors explanation on page 36 of the Annual the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have Reportas to how they have assessed the prospects of the been included.
Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement Based on the responsibilities described above and our work as towhether they have a reasonable expectation that undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act theGroup will be able to continue in operation and 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial meetitsliabilities as they fall due over the period of their Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain assessment, including any related disclosures drawing opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review Strategic report and Directors report oftheDirectors statement that they have carried out a In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in robustassessment of the principal risks facing the Group thecourseofthe audit, the information given in the andstatement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Strategicreport andDirectors report for the year ended Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an 30September 2018 isconsistent with the financial statements auditand only consisted of making inquiries and considering and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal the Directors process supporting their statements: checking requirements.
CA06 that the statements are in alignment with the relevant In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the Code :and considering whether the statements are audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Group and Company andtheir environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Corporate governance statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the courseofthe audit, the information given in the Corporate governance statement on pages 59 to 86 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures incompliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements andhasbeen prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 116 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of Other code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to thefinancial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms report when: part of our auditors report.
The statement given by the Directors, on page 110, thatthey consider the Annual Report taken as a whole Use of this report tobe fair, balanced and understandable, and provides This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for theinformation necessary for the members to assess andonly for the Companys members as a body in accordance theGroups and Companys position and performance, with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for business model and strategy is materially inconsistent no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept withour knowledge of the Group and Company obtained or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other in the course of performing our audit.
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent The section of the Annual Report on pages 80 to 84 in writing.
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to Other required reporting theAudit Committee.
Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance toyou if, in our opinion: with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing we have not received all the information and explanations Rules, for review by the auditors.
we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Directors remuneration Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to received from branches not visited by us: or be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL the Company Accounts and the part of the Directors STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial with the accounting records and returns.
statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
responsibilities set out on page 110, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements Appointment inaccordance with the applicable framework and for being Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are wewere appointed by the members on 22 February 2006 also responsible for such internal control as they determine is toaudit the financial statements for the year ended necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements 30September 2006 and subsequent financial periods.
The that are free from material misstatement, whether due to period of total uninterrupted engagement is 13 years, covering fraud or error.
the years ended 30 September 2006 to 30 September 2018.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, ANDREW KEMP matters related to going concern and using the going concern Senior Statutory Auditor basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to for and on behalf of  LLP liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors orhave no realistic alternative but to do so.
London Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial 19 November 2018 statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free frommaterial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, andtoissue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is notaguarantee that an audit conducted in accordance withISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or errorandare considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence theeconomic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
