pp44-67 Financials 01 06 2018 12:02 Page 46 Financial Independent Auditors Report To the Members of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc the Company for the year ended 31 March 2018 which comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1.
In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Overview Act 2006.
Materiality: financial statements as a whole Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK 15.5 million 2017: 17.4 million ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe 1% 2017: 1% of Total Assets that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
Lower Materiality income from investments excluding We were appointed as auditor by the company before 31 March 1980.
The period of unrealised gains and losses, investment total uninterrupted engagement is for more than the 38 financial years ended management fees and finance cost of 31 March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain borrowings independent of the Company in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit 1.9 million 2017: 1.9 million services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud Recurring risks identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit Carrying amount of quoted investments u strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matter unchanged from 2017, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address the matter and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
This matter was addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Carrying amount of Quoted Investments 1,536 million: 2017: 1,731 million Refer to page 28 Audit Committee Report, page 52 accounting policy and page 57 Note 9 Investments.
The risk: Low risk, high value The Companys portfolio of quoted investments makes up 99.3% of the Companys total assets by value and is one of the key drivers of results.
We do not consider these investments to be at a high risk of significant misstatement, or to be subject to requiring a significant level of judgement because they comprise liquid, listed investments.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the financial statements as a whole, they are considered to be the area which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and completing the audit.
46 pp44-67 Financials 01 06 2018 12:02 Page 47 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Our response: Our procedures included: Tests of detail: Agreeing the valuation of 100% of quoted investments in the portfolio to externally quoted prices: and Enquiry of custodians: Agreeing 100% of investment holdings in the portfolio to independently received third party confirmations from investment custodian.
Our Results: We found the carrying value of quoted investments to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality Materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 15.5 million 2017: 1,547m 2017: 1,747m 15.5m 2017: 17.4m 17.4 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets, of which 15.5m it represents 1% 2017: 1%.
Whole financial statements materiality 2017: 17.4m In addition, we applied a materiality of 1.92 million 2017: 1.86 million to income from investments excluding unrealised gains and losses: investment lm Performance materiality management fees and finance cost of borrowings for which we believe 2017: 13.1m misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statement as a whole could reasonably be expected to influence the Companys members assessment of the financial performance of the Company.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected Total Assets 0.77m identified misstatements exceeding 0.77 million 2017: 0.87 million : any Materiality Misstatements reported to the audit committee 2017: 0.87m corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 96,000 2017: 93,000 to income from investments excluding unrealised gains and losses: investment management fees: and finance cost of borrowings: and in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our audit of the company was undertaken to the materiality level specified above and was performed at the offices of The Bank of New York London Branch.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 35 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic Report and Directors Report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the Directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and 47 pp44-67 Financials 01 06 2018 12:02 Page 48 Financial Independent Auditors Report To the Members of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc only in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on page 17 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
48 pp44-67 Financials 01 06 2018 12:02 Page 49 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc 7.
Respective responsibilities Respective responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 39, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience and through discussion with the Directors, the investment manager and the administrator as required by auditing standards.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation as well as the Companys qualification as an Investment Trust under UK tax legislation, any breach of which could lead to the Company losing various deductions and exemptions from UK corporation tax.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team which included individuals with experience relevant to those laws and regulations, and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance Catherine Burnet with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been Senior Statutory Auditor undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To Statutory Auditor the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Chartered Accountants anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Saltire Court 20 Castle Terrace Edinburgh EH1 2EG 31 May 2018 49
