INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Electrocomponents plcs Group accounts and Company accounts the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 the Annual Report, which comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 March 2018: the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group cash flow statement, and the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the AuditCommittee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
During the period, we identified that an overseas network firm had provided assistance with the preparation of the 2017 statutory financial statements of an immaterial subsidiary that did not form part of our audit evidence for the Group audit which is prohibited by paragraph 5.173R of the FRC Ethical Standard.
This service is no longer being provided.
We confirm that based on our assessment of this breach we have not, in our view, compromised our independence.
Other than the matter referred to above, and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in the Audit Committee Report, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
84 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 8.65 million 2017: 6.4 million, based on 5% of Group profit before tax adjusted for substantial reorganisation costs.
Overall Company materiality: 0.90 million 2017: 1.2 million, based on 0.5% of net assets.
We identified 7 reporting units which, in our view, required afull scope audit based on their size or risk.
We used component teams in 6 countries to perform fullscope audits, with the Group team performing theremainder.
Materiality The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items including tax and inventory provisioning prepared by the head office finance function, were audited by the Group engagementteam.
Audit The Group engagement team visited the 2 financially significant component audit teams being the scope UK and US to discuss the audit approach and findings with those local teams.
For those countries not visited we maintained regular contact with the local team and evaluated the outcome of their audit work.
Key audit matters The components that are part of our audit scope as set out above account for 79% of Group revenue and 92% of Group profit before tax and substantial reorganisation costs.
Key audit matters were: Inventory obsolescence provision Group.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at a Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, Companies Act 2016, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, UK and other relevant tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with legal and tax advisors, review of minutes, enquiries of management, review of significant components auditors work, correspondence from non-significant components and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc85 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Inventory obsolescence provision Group We updated our understanding of the inventory provisioning methodology Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report, page 112 Note 17 Inventories and how it is applied.
We assessed the completeness of the data used by and page 94 Note 1 Basis of preparation.
the system to calculate the provision by agreeing the sub-ledger to the general ledger.
We recalculated the provision to ensure mathematical The balance of gross inventories at 31 March 2018 was 359.3 million, accuracy.
We noted no material exceptions.
against which a provision of 28.3 million was held.
We assessed the reasonableness of managements judgement regarding The valuation of the inventory provision was a focus of our audit for the the obsolescence percentages applied and expected future sales levels following reasons: by comparing these assumptions to historical write-offs and historical sales.
Electrocomponents business model is based on having the broadest We found the assumptions to be reasonable.
range in the industry and delivering products on time, often next day.
We also assessed the reasonableness of the product life cycles by comparing these This results in large quantities of inventory comprising many different against historical life cycles of similar products.
types of product, being held for long periods of time which raises the riskofinventory obsolescence.
We tested manual overlays to the automated calculation by understanding There is uncertainty about the impact of product life cycles, the value the market-specific considerations behind the adjustments and whether recoverable from any excess inventory, and future sales levels which require there was a right of return under the contractual arrangements.
We noted management to make assumptions based on historic trends.
The inventory provision is calculated within the Groups accounting systems using an automated process.
Where necessary manual overlays are applied to this provision to account for unusual circumstances that may have arisen during the year.
Tax provisioning Group We updated our detailed understanding of the Groups tax strategy and Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report, page 94 Note 1 Basis of Group transfer pricing policy, considering whether any changes have preparation and page 108 Note 10 Taxation.
been implemented during the year.
Due to the Group operating across a number of different tax jurisdictions Management commissioned a study by the Groups external advisors it is subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of specifically to consider transfer pricing when the current policy was tax matters during the normal course of business.
These challenges include implemented in 2017.
We have reassessed this for developments and note transaction related tax matters, financing and transfer pricing arrangements that it remains consistent with the conclusions reached by our own transfer arising from centralised functions that drive value across a number of pricing specialists.
We have also considered the position on transfer pricing different countries.
with respect to entities outside the Groups transfer pricing policy.
The Group continues to provide for uncertain tax positions in respect of We assessed key country technical tax issues and risks related to the transfer pricing and other matters.
The provision is based on the estimates business and legislative developments using, where applicable, our local of the potential outcome of audits by tax authorities in jurisdictions in which and international tax specialists.
We also considered any new developments the Group operates and totals 7.8 million.
in the application of these laws based on our knowledge of tax legislation and the current position adopted by tax authorities on similar matters.
We further performed analysis on the provisions to assess the risk that challenge on transfer pricing could arise from opposing territories.
Where individual countries tax authorities have either started enquiries or concluded on the Groups tax position in key jurisdictions we have reviewed the associated correspondence and utilised our own specialists to assess the accuracy of managements estimates, including discussions directly with managements local advisors to corroborate the likely impact.
We also considered the impact of audits which have been concluded during the year on the level of provisions to assess the accuracy of managements estimates of potential tax exposures.
We found managements judgements on likely exposure and overall position to be supportable.
We also evaluated whether the liabilities and potential exposures were appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
Revenue cut off Group We have assessed differences between the date of revenue recognition Refer to page 100 Note 4 Revenue recognition.
and the transfer of risks and rewards through understanding the terms of shipment and the associated lead times for delivery to the customer.
The Groups accounting systems recognise revenue at the point that goods We tested a sample of revenue transactions during the period and around are dispatched.
This reflects the fact that the terms and conditions are such the year end, and also considered the value and nature of the transactions that the risks and rewards have passed to the customer or that the majority at the prior year end.
Based on our audit procedures we noted no ofgoods have a guaranteed next day delivery and so the year on year materialexceptions.
Our work identified that the shipping terms are different across the Group and therefore the risks and rewards do not always pass to the customer ondispatch.
86 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a local finance function in each of the Groups country reporting units.
These functions maintain their own accounting records and controls although transactional processing and certain controls for some reporting units are performed at the Groups European shared service centre and report to the head office finance team through an integrated consolidation system.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined that we needed to conduct audit work over the complete financial information of the UK, US, Germany, France, Italy, China and Electrocomponents plc.
In each country we used PwC component auditors to audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that country.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, under our instruction, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
In the current year the Group team visited the financially significant component teams UK and US to meet with local management, obtain an understanding of the local environment and any audit risks arising.
For those countries not visited we had regular communication with the local teams, before, during and after their audit.
We directed the work of component teams, reviewed their approach and findings, and participated in the closing meetings of the significant components.
The components that are part of our audit scope as set out above account for 79% of Group revenue and 92% of Group profit before tax and substantial reorganisation costs.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group accounts Company accounts 8.65 million 2017: 6.4 million.
Overall materiality 5% of Group profit before tax adjusted for substantial 0.5% of net assets.
How we determined it reorganisation costs.
Rationale for We believe that profit before tax adjusted for one-off items is the We believe that net assets is the primary measure used by the benchmark key measure used by the shareholders as a body in assessing the shareholders in assessing the performance and position of the applied Groups performance.
We consider that excluding the substantial entity as it reflects the Companys principal activities of a holding reorganisation costs is appropriate as this provides us with a company and treasury function and is a generally accepted consistent year on year basis for determining materiality by auditing benchmark.
eliminating the non-recurring impact of these items.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 4.5 million and 0.5 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.365 million Group audit 2017: 0.28 million and 0.045 million Company audit 2017: 0.062 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, because attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the going concern.
directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to going concern We have nothing to report.
in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc87 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 34 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on pages 34 and 35 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 83, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 56 to 61 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 88 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 83, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financialstatements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 11 August 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 4 years, covering the years ended 31 March 2015 to 31 March 2018.
Christopher Richmond Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 May 2018 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2018 Electrocomponents plc89
