INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELEMENTIS PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements of Elementis plc Parent Company and its subsidiaries Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Balance Sheet: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated Financial Statement related Notes 1 to 32: the Parent Company Balance Sheet: the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity: and, the Parent Company Statutory Accounts related Notes 1 to 11.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
96 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Environmental provision Acquisition accounting for Mondo Minerals Holdings B. V. Revenue recognition Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was $5.3m which equates to 5.3% of profit before tax adjusted for the sale of operations, acquisition and restructuring costs, pension costs and other adjusting items.
Scoping We have performed full scope audits of four components, specified account balances on one component.
Full scope audits and specified account balances comprised of 86% of the Groups revenue and 88% of the Groups profit before tax.
Significant changes in our Following the announcement of the acquisition of Mondo Minerals Holdings B. V. we have approach identified a new key audit matter to report in respect of the acquisition accounting of Mondo Minerals Holdings B. V. and a new component consisting of Mondo Minerals.
We no longer consider the acquisition accounting of SummitReheis to be a key audit matter as the acquisition was completed in 2017.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements about whether We confirm that we have they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing nothing material to report, add them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability or draw attention to in respect to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the of these matters.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were We confirm that we have consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge nothing material to report, add obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys or draw attention to in respect ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything of these matters.
material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 42 to 48 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 59 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 59 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
97 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELEMENTIS PLC CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Environmental provision Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded Key observations In line with other companies within chemical to the key audit matter As a result of our work, industry, Elementis holds provisions for the We have audited the assumptions used in we have concluded that monitoring and remediation of a number of managements calculation of the provision.
the provisions held by operating and legacy sites, including those Our procedures included: Elementis in relation to sold off or no longer in use.
In accordance Holding discussions with management and environmental remediation with the Elementis environmental provision the Groups external environmental consultant and monitoring appear policy, a provision is recognised for the on the identified environmental issues to reasonable.
confirm our understanding of the current situation and the process by which As at 31 December 2018, Elementis has management and the external consultant recognised a provision of $43.3m prepared the cash flow forecasts: 31 December 2017: $27.8m against these Assessing the appropriateness of forecast of liabilities, of which the most significant two individual cost categories on each significant sites being Chromium UK site at Eaglescliffe site selected for completeness testing through and the Chromium US site at Corpus Christi.
discussions with site managers at relevant There has been an increase in the total locations: provision required of $18.8m, which Engaging our internal valuation experts to predominantly relates to these two sites and is challenge the appropriateness of the discount due to reassessment of the future forecast rates applied by comparison to our own cash expenditure required.
internal benchmark data: Challenging the key assumptions and inputs There is uncertainty in this provision relating to forecast the cash flows and agreeing the to the estimated future cash expenditure to inputs to supporting documentation: remediate the two sites and the discount rate Reviewing the previous estimates made of applied in the calculation: given the long time expected outflows to actual outflows to horizons over which costs for these two sites determine the reasonableness of the project are anticipated, small changes in annual cash spend: and outflows can have a significant cumulative Performing searches of external databases impact on the total provision required.
The to determine completeness of the identified cash flow is estimated and calculated by an environmental issues and sites.
external environmental consultant and by management.
These cash flows are then discounted at the management determined discount rate.
Due to the judgemental and material nature of estimation of such forecast spending, we have considered the valuation of the provision on these two sites to be a key audit matter.
The Groups accounting policy is included within Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements where this is also included as a critical accounting judgement.
There is additional disclosure included within Note 15.
The Audit Committee discussion is included on page 74.
98 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Acquisition accounting for Mondo Minerals Holdings B. V. Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded Key observations In October 2018, Elementis acquired 100% of to the key audit matter Based on the work the share capital of Mondo Minerals Holding B. V. Our procedures included: performed above, we are for consideration of $546.9m, which includes Reviewing the relevant sale and purchase satisfied that the acquisition of contingent consideration of $22.3m.
The agreement: Mondo Minerals Holding B. V. acquisition meets the definition of a business Testing the cash value of consideration to has been appropriately combination and is therefore required to be relevant transaction agreements and bank accounted for in accordance accounted for under IFRS 3 Business statements: with IFRS 3 Business Combination.
Challenging managements estimates used Combinations and that the in the valuation of the deferred contingent deferred contingent Management commissioned an independent consideration, including estimating our own consideration is appropriate.
valuation expert to assist with the identification range of acceptable values: and valuation of separate assets including Reviewing the process that management had intangible assets and liabilities.
The undertaken to determine the fair value of the acquisition of Mondo Minerals Holding B. V. business acquired including the fair value of resulted in the identification and recognition of the intangible assets: goodwill of $200.5m and other intangible Engaging Deloitte internal valuation specialists assets of $88.3m.
to review and challenge the identification of intangible assets, the appropriateness of the Accounting for business combinations is valuation techniques used and benchmark the complex and requires the recognition of both reasonableness of the key assumptions used, consideration paid and acquired assets and such as discount rates, useful economic lives liabilities at the acquisition date at fair values, and growth rates: which can involve significant judgement and Evaluating the information supporting the estimates.
These comprise the identification valuation model, contingent consideration and and valuation of intangible assets acquired assumptions, for example, the operating profit in business combinations, including key forecasts and churn assumptions used in the assumptions such as the discount rates and fair value analysis: and, growth rates of separately identifiable Reviewing the adequacy of disclosures intangible assets, as well as the valuation of regarding the key judgements made and fair value attributed to the deferred contingent assets and liabilities acquired.
These significant judgement areas are also referred to within the Audit Committee report on page 74.
Further details are disclosed in Note 10 and Note 31.
Revenue recognition Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded Key observations At the year end, there are varying adjustments to the key audit matter From the work performed, required for goods which have been Our procedures included: we have noted no material despatched but not met the definition for Reviewing and assessing commercial misstatements and have transferring control of the goods to the arrangements covering shipments, to concluded that management customer in line with IFRS 15.
Management determine the correct point of revenue have completed appropriate have determined the point at which control recognition for different shipment cut-off adjustments at the passes based on different shipping terms and arrangements and agreements with year end to take into account the key judgement relates to the assumptions customers: those sales where control around the delivery times to this point.
The Assessing managements revenue policy has not transferred.
Group trades globally and a change in the as a result of the implementation of IFRS 15: number of days assumed for these shipments Selecting a sample of international shipments can have a material impact on the cut-off made pre-year end for time periods varying by adjustment.
Given the level of management destination port and therefore transit time for judgement involved, we identified this key shipments and agreed these to customer audit matter as a potential fraud risk.
order, shipment and invoice details, cash receipts and goods receipt notes: The accounting policy is described in Note 1 Challenging managements assumptions used where this is also included as a critical in their cut-off calculation for reasonableness accounting judgement.
These significant and consistency by substantive testing of judgement areas are also referred to within international shipments: and the Audit Committee report on page 74.
Substantively tested credit notes raised post year end to determine if revenue was inappropriately recognised in the year.
99 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELEMENTIS PLC CONTINUED OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality $5.3m 2017: $5.0m $2.1m 2017: $2.5m Basis for determining Materiality was set on the basis of 5.3% of A factor of 3% of net assets was used capped materiality profit before tax, adjusted for the sale of to an appropriate component materiality 40% operations, acquisition and restructuring 2017: 50% of Group materiality.
costs, pension costs and other adjusting items with the exception of amortisation of intangible assets.
In the prior year, materiality was set on the basis of 4.8% of profit before tax, adjusted for discontinued operations, acquisition and restructuring costs and other adjusting items.
Rationale for the We have used adjusted profit before tax as We have used net assets in determining benchmark applied we consider this to be a key performance materiality as we believe this is an appropriate measure for the Group.
This metric is basis for materiality as it reflects the nature of important to users of the financial statements the parent company as a holding company investors and analysts being the key users for and its contribution to the Group performance.
a listed entity because it portrays the performance of the business and hence its ability to pay a return on investment to the investors and also has substantial prominence in the Annual Report.
Our rationale for excluding acquisition, restructuring and other adjusting items is that these are one off costs and are routinely added back by analysts in analysing company performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $265 thousand 2017: $250 thousand for the Group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
100 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The scope of our 2018 audit included an additional component due to the Mondo Mineral Holdings B. V. acquisition, which offset the removal of the Netherlands Surfactants operations that was disposed of in February 2018 and the amalgamation of the SummitReheis operations in the US into the Personal Care, Coatings and Energy Specialty products operations in the US.
There are five components for the 2018 year end, of which, four are significant to the Group: the Specialty products operations in the US, the Chromium operations in the US: the Specialty products operations in the UK: and, the Specialty products operations in Taiwan, including the Chinese operations.
These four locations were subject to full scope audits, which were performed by local component auditors under the direction and supervision of the Group audit team, except the Speciality UK operations where the Group audit team performed the audit without the involvement of a component team.
In addition, Mondo Mineral Holdings B. V. was subject to the audit of specified account balances performed by local component teams in the Netherlands and Finland, as this was only acquired on the 23 October 2018.
Our audit work on the five components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from $2.1m to $3.7m 2017: $2.5m to $2.8m.
The in-scope locations those at which a full scope audit or audit of specified balances were performed represent the principal business units within the Groups operating divisions and account for 86% 2017: 93% of the Groups revenue and 88% 2017: 99% of the Groups profit before tax.
Revenue Profit before tax Full scope audit 83% 86% Audit of specified account balances 3% 2% Review at Group level 14% 12% At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The parent company is located in the UK and is audited directly by the Group audit team.
As part of the audit process, the senior members, including the Group Audit Partner, of the audit team visited all of the locations subject to full scope audit procedures or the audit of specified account balances 2017: six of seven set out above.
During our visits, we attended key meetings with component management and auditors, and reviewed detailed component audit work papers.
In addition to the planned programme of visits, planning meetings were held with key component audit teams.
The purpose of these planning meetings was to ensure a good level of understanding of the Groups businesses, its core strategy and a discussion of the significant risks.
We also send detailed instructions to our component auditors, include them our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
We also provided direction on enquiries made by the component auditors through online and telephone conversations.
All the findings noted were discussed with the component auditor in detail and further procedures to be performed were issued where relevant.
101 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELEMENTIS PLC CONTINUED OTHER INFORMATION The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
102 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
EXTENT TO WHICH THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit, and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team including significant component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations, pensions, and IT specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: posting of spurious journal entries and manually manipulating revenue to meet targets: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, pensions legislation and tax legislation.
In addition to those laws and regulations having a direct effect, considering the nature of the Groups activities, we considered environmental regulations as having a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified revenue recognition and environmental provision as key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and describes the specific procedures we performed in response to this key audit matters.
In addition, to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
103 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ELEMENTIS PLC CONTINUED REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors Report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
OTHER MATTERS Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board on 27 April 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is three years, covering the years ending 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
CHRISTOPHER POWELL, FCA, SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 5 March 2019 104 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In this section: 106 Consolidated Income Statements 106 Consolidated Statement ofComprehensive Income 107 Consolidated Balance Sheet 108 Consolidated Statement of Changesin Equity 109 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 110 Notes to the Consolidated FinancialStatements 156 Parent Company Statutory Accounts 158 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 164 Unaudited Pro Forma Information 105 Elementis plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
