FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements Financial Statements Essentra plc Company Notes continued Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Essentra plc 10.
Subsidiary undertakings continued Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion Country of incorporation Principal activity Address of registered office In our opinion: Skiffy Limited UK Non-trading Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes, Essentra plcs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view Buckinghamshire, MK9 1AU of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit and cash flows for the year Stera Tape Limited UK Non-trading Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes, then ended: Buckinghamshire, MK9 1AU the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted ESNT Components Co.
US Non-trading Two Westbrook Corporate Center, Suite 200, Westchester IL by the European Union: 60154, United States the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting US LLC 2, LLC US Non-trading Two Westbrook Corporate Center, Suite 200, Westchester IL Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and 60154, United States the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group Essentra Pipe Protection Technologies Services S fide Mexico Non-trading Avenida Framboyanes Lote 1, Manzana 4, Ciudad Industrial Bruno financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
r. l fide CV Pagliai, Veracruz, Mexico Essentra Packaging Waterford Limited Ireland Non-trading 8 Airways Industrial Estate, Dublin 17, Ireland We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets MSI Pipe Protection Technologies Canada Limited Canada Manufacturing Suite 2600, Three Bentall Centre, P. O.
BOX 49314, 595 Burrard as at 31 December 2018: the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Street, Westchester, Vancouver BC V7X 1L3, Canada Statement of Cash Flows, and the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: the Accounting Policies, the Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimates, the Company Accounting Policies, and the notes to the financial statements.
ESNT Tallaght Limited Ireland Manufacturing 8 Airways Industrial Estate, Dublin 17, Ireland ESNT Limited New Zealand Services Quigg Partners, Floor 7, 36 Brandon Street, Wellington Central, Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit & Risk Committee.
Wellington, 6011, New Zealand Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Nolato Hertila AB Sweden Manufacturing Persbogatan 1, SE-265 38, storp, Sweden As explained in the Accounting Policies to the financial statements, the group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Essentra plc UK Holding Company Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Buckinghamshire, MK9 1AU In our opinion, the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Filtrona Custom Moulding Limited UK Manufacturing Avebury House, 201-249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, MK9 1AU Basis for opinion MSI Pipe Protection Technologies UK Limited UK Manufacturing Avebury House 201-249 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under Buckinghamshire, MK9 1AU ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the Duraco Specialty Tapes LLC US Manufacturing Two Westbrook Corporate Center, Suite 200, Westchester IL audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
60154, United States Independence We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
Other than those disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the parent company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
168 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ESSEN ESSEN TT RA RA P PLC LC AA N N N N UU AA L L R REP EO PO RT R T 2 2010 818 169 169 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Essentra plc continued Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 4.0m 2017: 3.7m, based on 5% of profit before tax, intangibles amortisation and exceptional and other adjusting items.
Materiality Overall parent company materiality: 6.6m 2017: 7.1m, based on 1% of net assets.
There were no significant components within the group.
We performed full scope audit work on 30 reporting units, and specified procedures over certain balances on an Audit scope additional 39 reporting units.
This provided coverage of 72% revenue, 52% profit before tax, and 71% net assets.
Key audit matters Presentation of exceptional and other adjusting items group.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to the Listing Rules, Tax legislation, Employment regulation, Health and Safety legislation, and other legislation specific to the industries in which the group operates, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting of journal entries to improve revenue performance or to manipulate metrics relating to bank covenants, and inappropriate management bias in key accounting estimates.
The group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the group engagement team and or component auditors included: Review of correspondence with the regulators and review of correspondence with legal advisors: Review of matters reported through the groups whistleblowing mechanism: Enquiries of management: Enquiries with component auditors: Review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements: Identifying and testing journal entries with unusual account combinations which result in an impact to revenue or to metrics relevant to bank covenants: Assessing key judgements and estimates made by management for evidence of inappropriate bias.
Key judgements and estimates include the valuation of goodwill, exceptional and other adjusting items, and uncertain tax positions.
Details of our procedures in these areas are included in our key audit matters below.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
170 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 170 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Essentra plc continued Our audit approach Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Overview We have assessed the methodology applied by management in Goodwill impairment group Overall group materiality: 4.0m 2017: 3.7m, based on 5% of profit before tax, intangibles amortisation and performing their impairment reviews and tested the integrity of The group has goodwill of 338.9m, of which 191.3m is allocated to exceptional and other adjusting items.
the Packaging division, 80.4m to Components, and 67.2m to Overall parent company materiality: 6.6m 2017: 7.1m, based on 1% of net assets.
In the prior year there was a low level of We evaluated the future cash flow forecasts for each CGU, including headroom on the Packaging division impairment model.
However, at short term cash flows, and the process by which they were determined.
In doing so we compared the cash flow forecasts to the latest Board 31 December headroom against the asset carrying value was 165.0m.
We performed full scope audit work on 30 reporting units, and specified procedures over certain balances on an approved plans and compared prior year budget to 2018 actual The discount rate calculated by management has decreased compared additional 39 reporting units.
performance in order to assess the quality of managements to prior year, contributing to the increase in the headroom in the forecasting process.
Our procedures confirmed the reasonableness This provided coverage of 72% revenue, 52% profit before tax, and 71% net assets.
of the cash flows included in the models.
All cash generating units CGUs containing goodwill and indefiniteWe also tested key assumptions including exchange rates and longlived intangible assets must be tested for impairment annually.
Presentation of exceptional and other adjusting items group.
term growth rates by comparing them to third party published Management must also determine the recoverable amount for other economic and industry forecasts and analyst reports.
We found the Tax liabilities group.
finite-lived assets where impairment indicators are identified.
The impairment reviews performed by management contain a number We validated the discount rate by recalculating the groups weighted The scope of our audit of significant judgements and estimates including revenue growth, average cost of capital for each CGU.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, profit margins and discount rates.
A change in these assumptions can we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making result in a material change in the valuation of the assets.
We performed sensitivity analyses around the key assumptions to assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions that, either See page 124 for managements disclosure of this significant individually or collectively, would be required for goodwill to be impaired.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud judgement.
We noted that the required level of change was beyond that which we Based on our understanding of the group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related would consider likely given the current market conditions and recent to the Listing Rules, Tax legislation, Employment regulation, Health and Safety legislation, and other legislation specific to the industries in which performance of the business.
the group operates, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
Disclosures included within note 8 have also been assessed against We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override the requirements of IFRS and deemed reasonable.
of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting of journal entries to improve revenue performance or to manipulate Presentation of exceptional and other adjusting items We assessed the appropriateness of the groups accounting policy for metrics relating to bank covenants, and inappropriate management bias in key accounting estimates.
The group engagement team shared this group the recognition of exceptional and other adjusting items with reference risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit to the applicable accounting standards.
procedures performed by the group engagement team and or component auditors included: The financial statements include certain items which are disclosed as exceptional and adjusting items.
The nature of these items is explained We considered whether the items disclosed as exceptional and Review of correspondence with the regulators and review of correspondence with legal advisors: within the group accounting policy and includes transaction costs adjusting were consistent with the accounting policy and the approach Review of matters reported through the groups whistleblowing mechanism: relating to acquisition and disposals of businesses, acquisition taken in prior years, to confirm that items were appropriately classified.
integration and restructuring costs, and other items such as site We did not identify any material items which we would expect to be Enquiries of management: closure costs.
reported in earnings before exceptional and other adjusting items.
Enquiries with component auditors: In the year the most significant exceptional and other adjusting items Site disposal and closure costs include the disposal and write down Review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements: relate to the cost of disposal and closure of sites 9.9m, transaction of assets 5.1m, employee severance payments 2.0m and other costs relating to acquisitions and disposals 3.1m, a Guaranteed closure costs such as external project management, consultants and Identifying and testing journal entries with unusual account combinations which result in an impact to revenue or to metrics relevant to Minimum Pension GMP charge 2.2m and costs associated with legal costs 2.8m.
We have performed sample testing across all bank covenants: the finalisation of the restructuring of the group following the major balances and verified those samples to supporting invoices, agreements Assessing key judgements and estimates made by management for evidence of inappropriate bias.
Key judgements and estimates include the strategic review commenced in 2017 6.1m.
For assets write offs, we have agreed the book value valuation of goodwill, exceptional and other adjusting items, and uncertain tax positions.
Details of our procedures in these areas are included in to the accounting records and confirmed with management the We focused on this area as there is limited guidance relating to this our key audit matters below.
rationale for the write downs.
presentational matter within IFRS and judgement is required by the There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is directors in determining whether items classified as exceptional or Acquisition and disposal costs 3.1m have been tested through from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting adjusting are consistent with the groups accounting policy.
sampling and items have been traced to supporting invoices and a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment other documentation.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as exceptional and by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
adjusting is important to maintain comparability of the results year The impact of GMP equalisation following the outcome of a legal case on year.
in relation to UK defined benefit pension schemes, has been based on Key audit matters advice from the companys actuaries.
We have reviewed the calculation Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial See page 124 for managements disclosure of this significant and consider the methodology used to be reasonable.
The GMP charge statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified judgement.
is a one-off item and does not relate to underlying trading, and by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing therefore the classification as exceptional is considered appropriate.
the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these A sample of restructuring costs have been agreed to supporting matters.
evidence such as invoices and redundancy agreements.
We have considered other one-off or notable credits charges recognised in earnings before exceptional and other adjusting items to ensure consistent treatment with adjusting items.
The disclosures included in note 2 were reviewed and deemed reasonable.
170 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ESSENTRA PLC ESSEN ESSEN TRA TR A P PLCLC AN AN NU NA UL A R L R EPE O PR O TR 2T 2 018 018 17 171 1 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Essentra plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Tax liabilities group We assessed managements process for identifying uncertain tax positions and the accounting policy for providing for tax exposures.
The group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions and recognises tax based on interpretation of local laws and regulations which are We considered managements assessment of known areas of sometimes uncertain.
At 31 December 2018, the group has current and uncertainty and the provisions held against these.
Through review of non-current tax payables of 41.8m.
Where the amount of tax payable managements analysis of these positions, including testing of detailed is uncertain, the directors are required to exercise significant judgement workings and consideration of advice received from their tax advisors, in determining the appropriate amount to provide in respect of we determined that the provisions recognised and the disclosures in the potential tax exposures and uncertain tax positions.
We focused on the judgements made by management in assessing the likelihood and quantification of material exposures.
See page 124 for managements disclosure of this significant judgement.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the parent company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The group is split into four divisions being Components, Packaging, Filters and Specialist Components.
Each division consists of a large number of controller sites spread globally across 33 territories.
There are 245 reporting units within the consolidation, which include the controller sites and other consolidation units.
We did not identify any individually significant components within the group, with the largest contribution to revenue being 5% from one controller site, and the average being 1%.
We determined the most effective approach was to engage PwC local component teams to perform full scope procedures over 25 reporting units, with the Group audit team performing full scope audit work over a further 5 reporting units.
In addition, specified audit procedures were performed by component auditors over certain balances, including revenue, at a further 7 reporting units in the Americas.
In the largest sites in the Americas, specified procedures over fixed assets, inventory and trade receivables were also performed.
The Group audit team also performed audit procedures over specific balances within a further 32 reporting units.
This approach ensures that appropriate audit coverage has been obtained over all financial statement line items.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement we needed to have in that audit work to ensure we could conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained for the group financial statements as a whole.
We issued written instructions to all component auditors and had regular communications with them throughout the audit cycle.
This included a clearance meeting with each component team and review of all significant matters reported.
In addition members of the group engagement team have visited controller sites in the US, Singapore, Indonesia, Hungary and UK, including meeting with local audit teams and local management as part of these visits.
Based on the detailed audit work performed across the group, we have gained coverage of 72% of total revenue, 52% of profit before tax, and 71% of net assets.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
172 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 172 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Essentra plc continued Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Tax liabilities group We assessed managements process for identifying uncertain tax Group financial statements Parent company financial statements positions and the accounting policy for providing for tax exposures.
The group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions and recognises tax based on interpretation of local laws and regulations which are We considered managements assessment of known areas of How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, intangibles amortisation and 1% of net assets.
Through review of exceptional and other adjusting items.
Where the amount of tax payable managements analysis of these positions, including testing of detailed is uncertain, the directors are required to exercise significant judgement workings and consideration of advice received from their tax advisors, Rationale for benchmark The group is profit-oriented, therefore it is considered The entity is a holding company of the rest of the in determining the appropriate amount to provide in respect of we determined that the provisions recognised and the disclosures in the applied most appropriate to apply a rule of thumb based group and is not a trading entity.
Therefore an asset potential tax exposures and uncertain tax positions.
The directors, based measure is considered appropriate.
management and the users of the group financial We focused on the judgements made by management in assessing statements focus on adjusted numbers, being the likelihood and quantification of material exposures.
adjusted operating profit, adjusted net income See page 124 for managements disclosure of this significant or adjusted pre-tax profit.
adjusted as excluding the impact of intangible amortisation and exceptional and other adjusting items.
Based on this, we consider an adjusted metric We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the parent company to communicate in our report.
of profit before tax, intangibles amortisation and How we tailored the audit scope exceptional and other adjusting items to be the most appropriate benchmark.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of The group is split into four divisions being Components, Packaging, Filters and Specialist Components.
Each division consists of a large number materiality allocated across components was between 0.1m and 2.4m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
of controller sites spread globally across 33 territories.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2m Group audit 2017: 0.2m and 0.2m Parent company audit 2017: 0.2m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted We did not identify any individually significant components within the group, with the largest contribution to revenue being 5% from one controller site, and the average being 1%.
We determined the most effective approach was to engage PwC local component teams to perform full scope reporting for qualitative reasons.
procedures over 25 reporting units, with the Group audit team performing full scope audit work over a further 5 reporting units.
In addition, Going concern specified audit procedures were performed by component auditors over certain balances, including revenue, at a further 7 reporting units in the In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Americas.
This approach ensures that Reporting obligation Outcome appropriate audit coverage has been obtained over all financial statement line items.
We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of We have nothing material to add or to draw the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it attention to.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement we needed to have in that audit work appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements to ensure we could conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained for the group financial statements as a whole.
We issued However, because not all future events or and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and the parent written instructions to all component auditors and had regular communications with them throughout the audit cycle.
This included a clearance conditions can be predicted, this statement is companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the meeting with each component team and review of all significant matters reported.
not a guarantee as to the groups and parent date of approval of the financial statements.
companys ability to continue as a going In addition members of the group engagement team have visited controller sites in the US, Singapore, Indonesia, Hungary and UK, including concern.
For example, the terms on which the meeting with local audit teams and local management as part of these visits.
United Kingdom may withdraw from the Based on the detailed audit work performed across the group, we have gained coverage of 72% of total revenue, 52% of profit before tax, and European Union, which is currently due to occur 71% of net assets.
on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential Materiality implications on the companys trade, The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
These, together customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance with We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
172 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ESSENTRA PLC ESSEN ESSEN TRA TR A P PLC LC AA NN NN UU AA L L R REP EO PO RT R 2 T 2 010 818 17 173 3 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Essentra plc continued Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 77 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 106 to 108 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 76, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 82 describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 174 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 174 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Essentra plc continued Reporting on other information Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 109, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, have been included.
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: Strategic report and Directors report frc.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal Use of this report requirements.
CA06 This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Other required reporting We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: Companies Act 2006 exception reporting The directors confirmation on page 77 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from The directors explanation on page 106 to 108 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period branches not visited by us: or they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal accounting records and returns.
risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are Appointment consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the directors on 20 April 2017 to audit the financial statements for Listing Rules the year ended 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 2 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2017 to 31 December 2018.
Other code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: Nicholas Stevenson Senior Statutory Auditor The statement given by the directors, on page 76, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and for and on behalf of  LLP understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and parent companys position and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company obtained in Milton Keynes, United Kingdom the course of performing our audit.
1 March 2019 The section of the Annual Report on page 82 describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
CA06 174 ESSENTRA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ESSENTRA PLC ESSEN ESSEN TRA TR A P PLC LC AA NN NN UU AA L L R REP EO PR OT R 2 T 2 010 818 17 175 5
