Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members  Investor PLC Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion: Euromoney Institutional Investor PLCs Group Financial Statements and Company Financial Statements the 'Financial Statements' give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs at 30 September 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 'The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland', and applicable law : and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the 'Annual Report', which comprise: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the Company Balance Sheet at 30 September 2018: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: and the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK 'ISAs UK ' and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 4 to the Financial Statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 4.0m 2017: 4.2m based on 5% of statutory profit before tax from continuing operations, adjusted for exceptional items.
Overall Company materiality: 14.5m 2017: 13.5m based on 1% of total assets.
Materiality We conducted work in three key territories, being the UK, US and Canada.
This included full scope audits at four components and specific Financial Statements line item audit procedures at afurther two components.
Taken together, the components at which audit work has been performed accounted for approximately 77% of the Groups revenue, 96% of the Groups statutory profit before tax Audit scope from continuing operations and 91% of the Groups statutory profit before tax from continuing operations, adjusted for exceptional items.
Carrying values of goodwill and acquired intangible assets Group and investments in Key audit subsidiaries Company matters Uncertain tax positions Group Presentation of exceptional items Group US tax reform Group Disposals and discontinued operations Group Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members  Investor PLC continued The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and Company and the industry in which they operate and considered the risk of acts by the Group and Company which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component levels and for the Company to respond to this risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company Financial Statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK, the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and taxation legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, checking the Financial Statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, review of significant component auditors work and review of relevant Internal Audit reports insofar as they related to the Financial Statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the Financial Statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Procedures designed to address these risks included testing of material journal entries and post-close adjustments, testing and evaluating managements key accounting estimates for reasonableness and consistency, understanding and testing management incentive plans, undertaking cut-off procedures to test proper cut-off of revenue and expenses and testing the existence and accuracy of revenue transactions.
In addition, we incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit work each year.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
80 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying values of goodwill and acquired intangible assets We obtained managements goodwill impairment model Group and tested the reasonableness of key assumptions, including revenue, profit and cash flow growth rates, terminal growth rates Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 52 and to note 12 and the selection of discount rates.
We agreed the underlying to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
cash flow projections to management approved budgets and forecasts and assessed how these projections are compiled.
At 30 September 2018, the Group had 588m of intangible Where cost savings were forecast, in particular for businesses in assets, which includes 168m of acquired intangible assets the Asset Management segment, we verified that the associated and 415m of goodwill.
Goodwill is tested for impairment restructuring had been committed and compared the planned annually or more frequently if impairment indicators exist.
savings to the costs previously incurred to deliver these savings.
Acquired intangible assets that are amortised are tested for impairment if impairment indicators exist.
Deploying our valuations experts, we assessed the terminal growth rate and discount rate applied to each CGU compared During the year, the Group recognised a 3.0m impairment with third party information, past performance, the Groups cost charge for Layer123.
In addition, there have been headwinds of capital and relevant risk factors.
We evaluated the agreed affecting a number of businesses operating within the sales price from third parties where CGUs are held for sale and asset management segment following structural and therefore have been valued on a fair value less cost of disposal regulatory changes in the market, which were considered an basis.
We performed our own risk assessment by considering impairment indicator.
historical performance and managements forecasting accuracy by applying any current year budget shortfalls to future forecasts Recoverability of goodwill and acquired intangible assets to highlight the CGUs with either lower headroom or which are is contingent on future cash flows of the underlying cash more sensitive to changes in key assumptions.
generating units CGUs and there is a risk that if these cash flows do not meet managements expectations the assets will We performed our own independent sensitivity analysis to be impaired.
The cash flow forecasts and related recoverable understand the impact of reasonably possible changes in value calculations include a number of significant judgements managements assumptions on the available headroom.
and estimates including revenue, profit and cash flow growth We challenged the significant assumptions, specifically relating rates, terminal growth rates and discount rates.
For certain to revenue and profit growth in light of the individual CGUs past CGUs, including where businesses are held for sale, fair value performance to assess whether the forecasts are achievable.
less cost of disposal rather than value in use has been used as the methodology to value CGUs.
Changes in the key assumptions We focused in particular on the goodwill relating to Layer123 underpinning these calculations have a significant impact on the in order to determine whether we agreed with managements headroom available in the impairment calculations.
decision to impair and whether in our view the impairment charge is sufficient.
We separately evaluated whether additional sensitivity disclosures were required for more CGUs than RISI and BCA where management identified that reasonably possible changes in key assumptions could give rise to impairment charges in future periods.
We checked for any additional impairment triggers in other businesses through discussions with management, review of management accounts and board minutes, and examining performance of recent acquisitions to identify underperforming businesses.
As a result of our work, we determined that the impairment charge recognised in 2018 was appropriate.
We have assessed managements disclosures in light of the impairment testing performed and we considered the disclosures made to be reasonable.
For those intangible assets, including goodwill, where management determined that no impairment was required and that no additional sensitivity disclosures should be provided, we found that these judgements were supported by reasonable assumptions that would require significant downside changes before any additional material impairment was necessary.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members  Investor PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries Company We evaluated managements assessment whether any indicators of impairment existed by comparing the net assets Refer to note 6 to the Company Financial Statements.
of the Companys subsidiaries at 30 September 2018 with the Companys investment carrying values.
Investments in subsidiaries of 1,231m are accounted for at cost less impairment in the Company balance sheet at For those investments where the net assets were lower than 30 September 2018. the carrying values, management prepared a discounted cash flow model on a value in use basis.
We have tested the Investments are tested for impairment if impairment indicators reasonableness of key assumptions, including revenue, profit and exist.
If such indicators exist, the recoverable amounts of the cash flow growth rates, terminal growth rates and the selection investments in subsidiaries are estimated in order to determine of discount rates management has applied.
Deploying our the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Any such impairment loss valuations experts, we assessed the terminal growth rate and is recognised in the income statement.
discount rate applied to each investment compared with third party information, past performance, the Groups cost of capital Management judgement is required in the area of impairment and relevant risk factors.
testing, particularly in assessing: 1 whether an event has occurred that may indicate that the related asset values may In order to ensure that the recoverable values of investments not be recoverable: 2 whether the carrying value of an asset appropriately reflected the higher of fair value less cost of can be supported by the recoverable value, being the higher of disposal and the net present value of future cash flows calculated fair value less cost of disposal or the net present value of future on a value in use basis, management performed an assessment cash flows which are estimated based on the continued use of applying the fair value less cost of disposal methodology for the asset in the business: 3 appropriate valuation multiples certain investments where impairment indicators existed that used to estimate the fair value less cost of disposal: and 4 key was based on an estimated multiple of the investments profits.
assumptions to be applied in preparing cash flow projections We compared the multiples used to third party sources and to including whether these cash flow projections are discounted multiples paid by the Group in previous acquisitions.
We also using an appropriate rate.
Changing the assumptions selected considered the recoverable values by reference to the Groups by management to determine the level, if any, of impairment, market capitalisation at 30 September 2018. including the discount rates or the growth rate assumptions in the cash flow projections, could materially affect the recoverable We performed our own independent sensitivity analysis to value determined by the impairment test and as a result affect understand the impact of reasonably possible changes in the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
managements assumptions on the available headroom.
When applicable, we verified that the recoverable values of During the year, an impairment of 48.6m was recorded, investments were consistent with the recoverable values of the triggered by the payment of a material intercompany dividend related CGUs tested for goodwill impairment purposes as part of and lower forecasted profits in certain subsidiaries.
the Group audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
As a result of our work, we considered the 48.6m impairment charge to be appropriate.
The remaining carrying values of the investments held by the Company are supportable in the context of the Company Financial Statements taken as a whole.
Uncertain tax positions Group We evaluated managements judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess the Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 53 and to note 8 adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment we deployed our tax specialists and considered third party tax in relation to direct and indirect taxes and there are a number advice received by the Group, the status of recent and current of open tax matters with tax authorities, especially in the UK, tax authority audits and enquiries, the outturn of previous claims, US and Canada.
From time to time, the Group enters into judgemental positions taken in tax returns, and current year transactions with complicated accounting and tax consequences estimates and developments in the tax environment.
and judgement is required in assessing the level of provisions needed in respect of uncertain tax positions.
We refreshed our independent assessment of tax risks in the Groups most material markets UK, US and Canada and we During the year, the Group increased its provision for a potential evaluated the appropriateness and completeness of related tax exposure in the UK relating to a HMRC enquiry following receipt provisions.
The most significant uncertain tax positions comprise of a closure notice from HMRC in September 2018. the Canadian Revenue Agencys assessment of a foreign currency trade in 2009 and a potential exposure relating to a In addition, the Group is subject to sales taxes in the US.
The evolving nature both of US sales tax legislation and of the Groups product base as the business goes increasingly Deploying our tax specialists, we reviewed external expert digital means that management periodically needs to exercise advice received by the Group in relation to the challenges by the judgement supported by external expert advice in assessing Canadian Revenue Agency and HMRC.
Based on the audit evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning for direct and indirect taxes and the related disclosures to be complete and acceptable in the context of the Consolidated Financial Statements taken as a whole.
82 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Presentation of exceptional items Group We considered the appropriateness of the adjustments made to statutory profit measures to derive adjusted profit measures.
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 52 and to note 5 We understood managements rationale for classifying items to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
as exceptional and considered whether this is reasonable and appropriate in arriving at an adjusted profit measure for 2018.
The Group continues to present adjusted earnings by making adjustments for costs and profits which management believes to Overall, we found that management was even handed and be exceptional by virtue of their size and incidence.
consistent in its treatment of exceptional credits and debits.
During the year, the Group presented 81.4m of net income We were satisfied that excluding the one-off net profit on as exceptional items from continuing operations, primarily disposal of businesses from adjusted profit measures was comprising: profit on disposal of businesses and associates consistent with the Groups historical practice.
Where costs were 86.8m and the favourable settlement of the legal dispute treated as exceptional, we considered whether the Group had with the previous owners of Centre for Investor Education CIE complied with its accounting policy and with the financial hurdle offset by restructuring charges, goodwill impairments and other set by the Directors below which items of cost and income should exceptional costs.
In addition, a 91.3m exceptional gain on the not be treated as exceptional.
disposal of discontinued operations was recorded.
We considered the appropriateness and transparency of the Given that the Group presents adjusted earnings measures in disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding addition to its statutory results, the classification of these items the nature of the reconciling items between statutory and as exceptional in the Consolidated Financial Statements was adjusted profit measures, especially in the context of the principle considered important, particularly considering the nature of that financial reporting as a whole should be fair, balanced such items, whether they are non-recurring and whether they are and understandable.
As a result of our work, we determined that the classification of exceptional items was reasonable, that the Groups policy in this area has been consistently applied and that the rationale for including or excluding items from adjusted profit has been consistently applied across gains and losses.
US tax reform Group Deploying our US tax specialists, we evaluated the key judgements, assumptions and interpretations used by Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 53 and to notes 2 management to assess the impact of US tax reform.
We have and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
undertaken procedures to validate the corporate tax rate change adjustments to deferred tax balances, giving rise to a one-off The US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 'US tax reform' was substantively deferred tax credit of 4.7m, and the crystallisation of the 10.1m enacted in December 2017.
The main changes include a tax charge on the Dealogic gain.
With respect to the 3.2m reduction in the corporate tax rate that should be applied to toll tax charge for the deemed repatriation of foreign earnings deferred taxation balances and the introduction of a toll tax for of subsidiaries of the Groups US entities, we have evaluated the deemed repatriation of certain deferred foreign earnings.
the documentation prepared by management and assessed In addition, as a result of the change in attribution rules that the underlying calculations together with advice from third dictate which entities are treated as a controlled foreign party advisors, undertaken procedures to validate key inputs corporation CFC for US income tax purposes, the disposal of underpinning the estimated charge and confirmed that the shares in Diamond Topco Limited Dealogic crystallised a gain liability is appropriately presented.
Given the complexity and uncertainty relating to US tax reform, Some of the changes are complex and there are a number of we expect that there will be true-ups and updates to the areas of uncertainty relating both to the manner in which the law estimates made by management as further guidance is issued.
will apply and to the accounting in certain areas.
However, we are satisfied that the accounting positions taken by the Group at 30 September 2018 represent managements best estimate of the impact of US tax reform at this time.
Disposals and discontinued operations Group We obtained and reviewed the sale and purchase agreement SPA to gain an understanding of the terms of the transaction Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 53 and to note 11 and recalculated the gain on disposal based on the net assets to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
attributable to the disposal group.
On 30 April 2018, the Group disposed of its Global Markets We vouched the disposal costs to invoice and other supporting Intelligence Division, consisting of CEIC and EMIS the 'disposal evidence, confirming that they were directly attributable to the group', generating a gain on disposal of 91.3m.
disposal, and recalculated the cumulative translation adjustment recycled from reserves to the consolidated income statement In 2017, management concluded that the disposal group on disposal.
constituted a discontinued operation that was held for sale, meaning that additional disclosure of the profit, cash flows and We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in the notes to net assets of the disposal group is required under IFRS 5. the Consolidated Financial Statements and considered the disclosures to be appropriate.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members  Investor PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the industry in which they operate and the accounting processes and controls.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are a consolidation of 84 reporting units, each of which is considered to be a component.
We identified four components in the UK, US and Canada that required a full scope audit due to their size.
Audit procedures over specific Financial Statement line items were performed at a further two components in the UK and US to give sufficient audit coverage.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the components by us, as the Group audit team, or by component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole.
We performed full scope audits in respect of Euromoney Trading Limited UK, Euromoney Global Limited UK, Institutional Investor, Inc.
US and BCA Research, Inc. Canada which, in our view, required a full scope audit due to their size.
We performed audit procedures over specific Financial Statement line items at Tipall Limited over property, plant and equipment and related dilapidation provisions and at Ned Davis Research, Inc. over revenue, accounts receivable and deferred revenue.
This ensured that sufficient and appropriate audit procedures were performed to achieve sufficient coverage over these Financial Statement line items.
In addition to instructing and reviewing the reporting from our component audit teams, we conducted visits to our in-scope components in the US and Canada, which included file reviews and attendance at key meetings with local management.
We also had regular dialogue with component teams throughout the year.
The Group consolidation, Financial Statement disclosures and corporate functions were audited by the Group audit team.
This included our work over goodwill and intangible assets, acquisitions and disposals, treasury, post-retirement benefits and tax.
Taken together, the components and corporate functions where we conducted audit procedures accounted for approximately 77% of the Groups revenue, 96% of the Groups statutory profit before tax from continuing operations and 91% of the Groups statutory profit before tax from continuing operations, adjusted for certain exceptional items.
This provided the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements taken as a whole.
This was before considering the contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit work at the Group level, including disaggregated analytical review procedures, which covers certain of the Groups smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in our Group audit scope.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual Financial Statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Overall materiality 4.0m 2017: 4.2m.
How we 5% of statutory profit before tax from continuing operations, after 1% of total assets.
determined it adjusting for exceptional items.
Based on our professional Rationale for The Groups principal measure of earnings comprises adjusted judgement, total assets is an benchmark operating profit, which adjusts statutory operating profit for a appropriate measure to assess the applied number of income and expenditure items and which includes the performance of the Company and results of discontinued operations.
Management uses this measure is a generally accepted auditing as it believes that it eliminates the volatility inherent in exceptional benchmark for holding companies.
We have taken this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we have not adjusted profit before tax to add back amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share of results in associates and joint ventures or net finance costs as in our view these are recurring items which do not introduce volatility to the Groups earnings.
In addition, we have not taken profit from discontinued operations into account when determining our materiality given that GMID was sold during the year and does not therefore form part of the Groups ongoing operations at 30 September 2018.
84 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.5m and 3.4m.
Certain components were audited to local statutory audit materiality levels that were also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2m for the Group and Company audits 2017: 0.2m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention We have nothing material to add or to draw to in respect of the Directors statement in the Financial Statements whether attention to.
However, because not all future the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of events or conditions can be predicted, this accounting in preparing the Financial Statements and the Directors identification statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue and Companys ability to continue as a as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval going concern.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to going concern We have nothing to report.
in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the Financial Statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, to consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 is consistent with the Financial Statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members  Investor PLC continued The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 78 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: and The Directors explanation on page 39 of the Annual Report how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate and their statement whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the 'Code' : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 47, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit: The section of the Annual Report on pages 52 and 53 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: and The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 78, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
86 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 29 January 2015 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ended 30 September 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is four years, covering the years ended 30 September 2015 to 30 September 2018.
Giles Hannam Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 21 November 2018 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87
