Experian plc 104 Financial statements Independent auditor's report to the members of Experian plc only 1.
Our opinion is unmodi ed Basis for opinion We have audited the Financial Statements of Experian plc the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Company, or the Parent Company for the year ended 31 March 2018 Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are which comprise the Group income statement, Group statement of described below.
We have ful lled our ethical responsibilities under, comprehensive income, Group balance sheet, Group statement of and are independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical changes in total equity, Group cash ow statement, Company pro t and requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed loss account, Company statement of comprehensive income, Company entities.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a balance sheet, Company statement of changes in total equity and the suffi cient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
related notes, including the accounting policies in note 4.
Overview Materiality US$50m 2017: US$53m In our opinion: Group financial 5% 2017: 5% of Group pro t before tax the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the statements as a continuing operations Groups and of the Parent Companys aff airs as at 31 March 2018 and whole of the Groups and Parent Companys pro ts for the year then ended: Coverage 89% 2017: 90% of Group revenue the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in 83% 2017: 81% of Group pro t before tax accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as continuing operations adopted by the European Union: 92% 2017: 92% of Group total assets the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Recurring risks Provisions for taxation the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Provisions for litigation and contingent liabilities with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Impairment of goodwill Recoverability of Parent Companys investment in and amounts due from subsidiaries 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signi cance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most signi cant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identi ed by us, including those which had the greatest eff ect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the eff orts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In arriving at our audit opinion above, the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit signi cance, were as follows.
We continue to perform procedures over the goodwill impairment assessment in respect of the Asia Paci c cash generating unit.
However, following an increase in headroom and a reduction in the sensitivity to key assumptions used in the impairment model in the year, we have not assessed this as one of the most signi cant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identi ed in our report.
The risk Our response Tax uncertain tax positions Dispute Outcome Our procedures included: and tax planning Experian operates in a number of Our tax expertise: Using our own tax specialists to perform an assessment US$301m: 2017: US$213m territories worldwide with complex of the Groups tax positions through the review of correspondence with the local and international tax legislation.
relevant tax authorities and discussions with the Groups external advisors.
Refer to the Audit committee Signi cant uncertainties arise over the We challenged the assumptions applied using our own expectations based report within the Corporate ongoing tax matters in the UK, the USA on our knowledge of the Group and considered relevant judgements passed Governance Report and the and Brazil.
Tax provisioning for uncertain by authorities: and Group Financial Statements tax positions is judgmental and requires Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups notes 4, 5, 15, 34 and 43 b. estimates to be made in relation to disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
existing and potential tax matters.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Litigation and contingent Dispute Outcome Our procedures included: liabilities The Group operates in an industry Enquiry of lawyers: On all signi cant legal cases where available, US$44m: 2017: US$21m with continuously increasing levels of assessment of correspondence with the Groups external lawyers in order regulation, including the Consumer to corroborate our understanding of these matters, accompanied by Refer to the Audit Committee Finance Protection Bureau CFPB in discussions with internal counsel: and report within the Corporate the USA and various federal and state Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures Governance Report and the legislative actions in Brazil, which Group Financial Statements detailing signi cant legal proceedings adequately disclose the potential increase the potential for regulatory liabilities of the Group.
notes 5, 35 and 43. breaches and penalties.
High levels of consumer litigation continue in the USA and Brazil.
The outcome of such litigation is uncertain and any position taken by management involves signi cant judgment and estimation.
Goodwill impairment Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: assessment in respect of The total carrying value of goodwill as at Assessing methodology: Assessing whether the principles and integrity the EMEA cash generating 31 March 2018 is US$4,452m.
of the cash ow model is in accordance with the relevant accounting unit CGU standards: Of this, US$4,309m relates to CGUs where US$143m: 2017: US$123m Challenging growth assumptions: Challenging managements assumptions there is signi cant headroom between Refer to the Audit committee the value-in-use and the carrying value and obtaining support, such as board-approved strategy plans and customer contracts, where available, for the growth initiatives used in report within the Corporate of net assets.
The remaining balance of governance report and the US$143m relates to the EMEA CGU.
The the cash ow model, as well as corroborating long term growth rates to external sources: Group Financial Statements estimated recoverable amount of this notes 4, 5 and 19.
CGU shows relatively low headroom and Our sector experience: Reviewing the appropriateness of discount rate the model is particularly sensitive to through the use of our valuations specialists: changes in assumptions along with any Sensitivity analysis: Performing both breakeven and reasonably decline in forecast trading which could foreseeable scenario sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions noted have a material impact on the carrying above to identify the most sensitive: value of associated goodwill.
Historical comparisons: Evaluating the track record of historical Key inputs in the impairment models are assumptions used against actual results achieved: and inherently judgmental, which increases Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures the potential risk of error.
about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to a reasonably possible change in key assumptions re ected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Recoverability of Parent Low risk, high value Our procedures included: Companys investment in and The carrying amount of the Parent Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of 100% of investments amounts due from subsidiaries Companys investments in, and amounts and amounts due from subsidiaries, with the relevant subsidiaries draft Investment in subsidiaries due from, subsidiaries represents 35% balance sheet to identify whether their net assets, being an approximation US$8,357.7m: 2017: US$5,713.2m.
2017: 31% and 65% 2017: 69% of of the minimum recoverable amount of the related investments and Amounts owed by subsidiary the Parent Companys total assets amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings, were in excess of their carrying undertakings US$15,733.6m: respectively.
Their recoverability is not amount, and assessing whether those subsidiaries have historically been 2017: US$12,587.3m at a high risk of signi cant misstatement pro t-making: or subject to signi cant judgment.
Refer to the Parent Company Our sector experience: For those subsidiaries where the carrying However, due to their materiality in the Financial Statements notes amount exceeded the net asset value, comparing the carrying amount context of the Parent Company Financial L and M. of the investment with the expected value of the business: and Statements, this is considered to be the Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the relevant subsidiary area that had the greatest eff ect on our investments forecast cash ow assumptions to externally derived overall parent company audit.
data in relation to key inputs such as projected long term growth and using our valuation specialists discount rates.
Experian plc 106 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the Group profit before tax continuing operations Group materiality scope of our audit US$994m 2017: US$1,071m US$50m 2017: US$53m US$50m Materiality Whole Financial Statements materiality Materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set at 2017: US$53m US$50m 2017: US$53m, determined with reference to a benchmark of consolidated Group pro t before tax on continuing operations of which it represents 5% 2017: 5%.
Materiality for the Parent Company Financial Statements as a whole was set at US$25m 2017: US$25m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Company total assets, of which it represents 0.1% US$32m 2017: 0.1%.
Range of materiality at three reporting profit before tax components US$13m-US$32m We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or continuing operations 2017: US$9m-US$32m uncorrected identi ed misstatements exceeding US$2.4m 2017: Group materiality US$2.4m US$2.6m, in addition to other identi ed misstatements that warranted Misstatements reported to the audit committee 2017: US$2.6m reporting on qualitative grounds.
Total profits and losses that Scoping make up Group profit before tax Group revenue continuing operations Of the Groups 175 2017: 173 reporting components, we subjected three 2017: three to full scope audits for Group purposes.
11 17 10 19 The three reporting components and work performed by the group audit team accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
89% 83% The remaining 11% of total Group revenue, 17% of total pro ts and losses 2017: 90% 2017: 81% that make up Group pro t before tax continuing operations and 8% of 90 81 total Group assets is represented by 170 reporting components, none 89 83 of which individually represented more than 3% of any of total Group revenue, Group pro t before tax continuing operations or total Group assets.
Group total assets 8 For these residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated 8 Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no signi cant risks of material misstatement within these.
92% The group audit team instructed component auditors as to the signi cant 2017: 92% areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The group audit team approved 92 92 the component materialities, which ranged from US$13m to US$32m, 2017: US$9m to US$32m having regard to the mix of size and risk pro le of the Group across the components.
The work on three of the Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 175 components 2017: three of the 173 components was performed Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the Parent Residual components Company, was performed by the group audit team.
The Group operates five shared service centres in the UK, the USA, Malaysia, Chile and Bulgaria, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the reporting components they service and 4.
Our opinion on other matters under the terms of our therefore they are not separate reporting components.
Each of the engagement is unmodi ed service centres is subject to speci ed risk-focused audit procedures, In addition to our audit of the Financial Statements, the Directors predominantly the testing of transaction processing and review controls.
have engaged us to audit the information in the Report on Directors Additional procedures are performed at certain reporting components Remuneration that is described as having been audited, which the to address the audit risks not covered by the work performed over the Directors have decided to prepare as if the Company were required shared service centres.
to comply with the requirements of Schedule 8 to The Large and The group audit team visited three 2017: three component locations in Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports the USA, the UK and Brazil 2017: the USA, the UK and Brazil to assess Regulations 2008 S. I.
410 made under the UK Companies the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference meetings were also Act 2006. held with these component auditors.
At these visits and meetings, In our opinion, the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration the findings reported to the group audit team were discussed in more to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the detail, and any further work required by the group audit team was then UK Companies Act 2006, as if it applied to the Company.
performed by the component auditor.
The US component team also visited the UK during the year where meetings were held with the group, the UK and the shared service centre audit teams as well as Group management.
We have nothing to report on going concern 7.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception We are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in note 2 to the We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where Financial Statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, in with no material uncertainties that may cast signi cant doubt over the our opinion: Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company or months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 6.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the the Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting Annual Report records: or The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in we have not received all the information and explanations we require the Annual Report together with the Financial Statements.
Our opinion for our audit.
on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly 8.
Respective responsibilities stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Directors responsibilities consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 102, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the Financial Statements Financial Statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work including being satis ed that they give a true and fair view: such internal we have not identi ed material misstatements in the other information.
control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to the Directors con rmation within the Viability statement on page 60 cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business Auditors responsibilities model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the the principal risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, how they are being managed and mitigated: and whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high the Directors explanation in the Viability statement of how they have level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities could reasonably be expected to in uence the economic decisions of as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any users taken on the basis of the Financial Statements.
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary quali cations or assumptions.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: 9.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities we have identi ed material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and the terms of our engagement by the Company.
Our audit work has been provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report, and the further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with the the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit terms agreed with the Company and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to by us to the Audit Committee.
anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed by the Listing Rules for Paul Korolkiewicz our review.
Senior Statutory Auditor We have nothing to report in these respects.
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor 15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL 16 May 2018
