Independent Auditors Report Report on the audit of the financial Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards statements on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities Opinion under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities In our opinion, F&C Global Smaller Companies PLCs financial for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We statements: believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
as at 30 April 2018 and of its profit and cash flows for the year JJ Independence then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United We remained independent of the company in accordance with the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our of Ireland, and applicable law : and other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided We have audited the financial statements, included within the Report to the company.
and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the balance sheet as at 30 April 2018: the income statement, the statement of We have provided no non-audit services to the company in the cash flows, and the statement of changes in equity for the year then period from 1 May 2017 to 30 April 2018. ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a JJ The scope of our audit description of the significant accounting policies.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial Management Engagement Committee.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made Our audit approach JJ Overview Overall materiality: 8.2 million 2017: 7.3 million, based on 1% of Net assets.
Materiality The company is an Investment Trust Company and engages F&C Investment Business Limited the Manager to manage its assets.
We conducted our audit of the financial statements from information provided by State Street Bank and Trust Company the Administrator to whom the Manager has, with the consent of Audit the Directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions.
Scope We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the company, the involvement of the third parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the company operates.
Areas of focus Income from investments.
Valuation and existence of investments.
46 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Our tests included, but were not accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
supporting documentation, and testing the Companys compliance with section 1158 in the current year.
There are inherent limitations We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework in the audit procedures described above and the further removed applicable to the company and the industry in which it operates, non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and and considered the risk of acts by the company which were transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We would become aware of it.
designed audit procedures to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, management override of internal controls, including testing journals forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
misstatement in the companys financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, and section 1158 of Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Income from investments Refer to page 57 Significant Accounting We assessed the accounting policy for income recognition for compliance with accounting standards and the Policies and page 59 Notes to the Financial AIC SORP and performed testing to check that income had been accounted for in accordance with this stated Statements.
Income from investments comprised dividend and We found that the accounting policies implemented were in accordance with accounting standards and the AIC other income amounted to 12.3 million.
SORP, and that income has been accounted for in accordance with the stated accounting policy.
We tested accuracy of dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend rates from a sample of investments to We focused on the accuracy and completeness of independent third party sources.
dividend income recognition and its presentation in the Income Statement as set out in the To test for completeness, we tested that the appropriate dividends had been received in the year by reference to requirements of The Association of Investment independent data of dividends declared by a sample of investment holdings in the portfolio.
Companies Statement of Recommended Practice To test occurrence, we traced a sample of dividends received to bank statements.
We tested the allocation and presentation of dividend income between the revenue and capital return columns of This is because incomplete or inaccurate income the Income Statement in line with the requirements set out in the AIC SORP.
We then tested the validity of revenue could have a material impact on the companys net and capital special dividends to independent third party sources.
asset value and dividend cover.
We did not find any special dividends that were not treated in accordance with the AIC SORP.
We also focused on the accuracy and occurrence of realised and unrealised gains and losses on the We also checked that the gains or losses on investments held at fair value comprise realised and unrealised gains investment portfolio.
For realised gains or losses, we tested a sample of disposal proceeds to bank statements.
For unrealised gains or losses, we tested the valuation of the portfolio at the year-end, and also tested the reconciliation of the opening to closing investments value.
No misstatements were identified by our testing which required reporting to those charged with governance.
Valuation and existence of investments Refer to page 56 Significant Accounting Policies We tested the valuation of the listed equity investments by agreeing the prices used in the valuation to independent and page 63 Notes to the Financial Statements.
We tested the existence of the investment portfolio by agreeing the holdings for listed equity investments to an The investment portfolio at the year-end principally independent custodian confirmation.
comprised listed equity investments valued at 865.5m.
We focused on the valuation and existence of investments because investments represent the principal element of the net asset value as disclosed on the Balance Sheet in the financial statements.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 47 JJ Key audit matters Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors the financial statements as a whole as follows: professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of Overall materiality the financial statements of the current period and include the most 8.2 million 2017: 7.3 million.
significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had How we determined it the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement 1% of net assets.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of Rationale for benchmark applied our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
for investment trust audits, in the absence of indicators that an alternative This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
benchmark would be appropriate and because we believe this provides an appropriate and consistent year-on-year basis for our audit.
JJ How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial misstatements identified during our audit above 410,000 2017: statements as a whole, taking into account the types of investments 367,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our within the company, the involvement of the Manager and State view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Street Bank and Trust Company the Administrator, the JJ Going concern accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the company operates.
In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation The Manager delegates certain accounting and administrative functions to the Administrator on which they report to the Manager.
We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors environment in place at both the Manager and the Administrator to the extent relevant to our audit.
This assessment of the operating identification of any material uncertainties to the companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of and accounting structure in place at both organisations involved approval of the financial statements.
obtaining and reading the relevant control reports issued by the independent auditor of the Manager and the Administrator in Outcome: We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
accordance with generally accepted assurance standards for such However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this work.
We then identified those key controls at the Administrator on statement is not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a which we could place reliance to provide audit evidence.
assessed the gap period of one month between the period covered Reporting obligation by the controls report of the Administrator and the year-end of the company.
Following this assessment, we applied professional We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our balance in the financial statements, including whether we needed to knowledge obtained in the audit.
perform additional testing in respect of those key controls to support Outcome: We have nothing to report.
For the purposes of our audit, we determined that additional testing of controls in place at the Administrator was not required because additional substantive testing was performed.
Reporting on other information JJ Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements form of assurance thereon.
48 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the We have nothing to report having performed a review of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we of the principal risks facing the company and statement in relation to are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is the longer-term viability of the company.
Our review was substantially a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we and considering the directors process supporting their statements: have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report Based on the responsibilities described above and our work when: undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct The statement given by the directors, on page 31, that Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the companys position Strategic Report and Directors Report and performance, business model and strategy is materially In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the inconsistent with our knowledge of the company obtained in the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors course of performing our audit.
Report for the year ended 30 April 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with The section of the Annual Report on page 41 describing the applicable legal requirements.
CA06 work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify The directors statement relating to the companys compliance any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a Report.
CA06 relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the company and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or Directors Remuneration liquidity of the company In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 The directors confirmation on page 14 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its Responsibilities for the financial business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
statements and the audit The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 45, the directors are responsible The directors explanation on page 15 of the Annual Report as for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true what period they have done so and why they consider that period and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period whether due to fraud or error.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 49 In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible Other required reporting for assessing the companys ability to continue as a going concern, Companies Act 2006 exception reporting disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either in our opinion: intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report received from branches not visited by us: or that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement are not made: or when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could the financial statements and the part of the Directors reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with taken on the basis of these financial statements.
the accounting records and returns.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part Appointment of our auditors report.
Based on publicly available records we were the appointed auditor prior to 1986 and audited the financial statements for the year ended Use of this report 30 April 1986, and have been annually reappointed by the members This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only at the Annual General Meeting for subsequent financial periods.
for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter The period of total uninterrupted engagement is therefore at least 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
33 years, covering the years ended 30 April 1986 to 30 April 2018.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 19 June 2018 50 | F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC
