Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 100 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Qualified opinion In our opinion, except for the possible effects of the matters described in the basis for qualified opinion section of our report: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Ferrexpo plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together the Group affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of financial position: the consolidated and Parent Company statement of cash flows: the consolidated and Parent Company statement of changes in equity: the related consolidated Notes 1 to 34: and the related Parent Company Notes 1 to 8.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for qualified opinion We have been unable to obtain satisfactory audit evidence or explanations in respect of the following matters: 1.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR donations advanced to Blooming Land Charitable Foundation Blooming Land We have been unable to obtain satisfactory audit evidence or explanations to conclude whether the US$9.5 million of CSR donations advanced to Blooming Land in the year ended 31 December 2018, and US$24.0 million in the year ended 31 December 2017, was expended by Blooming Land on legitimate business payments for charitable purposes.
The Directors suspended payments to Blooming Land in May 2018.
The cumulative CSR payments made to Blooming Land by the Group since 2013 total approximately US$110 million.
Depending on the nature of any misappropriation or misapplication that might or might not emerge and is concluded on, the risk is that the Groups financial statements i might not fairly present the nature of the expenditures made: ii might omit liabilities for any related breaches of laws and regulations involving the Group: and or iii might omit related party or other disclosures that ought to have been made.
In August 2018, Deloitte received from Blooming Land additional copy bank statements and inconsistencies were identified between those and copy bank statements received previously in July 2018, which raised concerns as to the credibility and reliability of all other information and documentation previously provided by Blooming Land.
To date, Blooming Land has not provided the original or certified copy bank statements to Ferrexpo, citing confidentiality constraints.
Blooming Land has provided explanations for these inconsistencies, including the cyber-attacks against Ukrainian financial institutions in June 2017 which they stated caused these irregularities in the copy bank statement data.
Our knowledge of the effects of the cyber-attack on other companies and the systems by which bank statements are generated raised concerns whether these explanations are credible.
In relation to the direct donations of materials reported by Blooming Land as having been made to institutions in Ukraine, we received cost breakdowns and source documents supporting the stated expenditure for a sample selected by us but Blooming Land has not provided the requested details of the recipient parties or any supporting documents evidencing receipt by them.
In the final quarter of 2018, we identified from public records in Ukraine that certain criminal legal proceedings have been launched in Ukraine under which Blooming Land has been directed by the relevant court to provide documents.
We reported all of these concerns to the Board of Directors and our recommendation that an independent forensic investigation be launched.
In February 2019, the Group established an Independent Review Committee IRC with the mandate set out on page 69, which includes reviewing the discrepancies in the copy bank statements: gaining assurance over the ultimate use of funds donated to Blooming Land: reviewing the relationship between Blooming Land and Khimreaktiv an entity controlled by the Groups CEO : whether significant influence or control over Blooming Land exists: and the extent of any potential legal or regulatory exposures.
The IRC commissioned an independent forensic investigation referred to as an Independent Review by the Company led by legal counsel in the UK and Ukraine and independent forensic accountants.
The forensic investigation is ongoing, such that the inconsistencies in the copy bank statements provided by Blooming Land are not yet resolved.
Further, the independent forensic accountant has identified discrepancies with regard to the application of funds by the Blooming Land and there are indications from their work to date that some element of the funds could have been misappropriated.
As noted on page 70, the IRC has noted that they cannot conclude as to the ultimate use of all of the funds and that there are indications that some could have been misappropriated and accordingly we are also unable to conclude as to the ultimate use of all the funds by Blooming Land and whether the Groups payments to Blooming Land are appropriately presented and disclosed.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 101 2.
Whether Blooming Land is a related party of the Group The Directors have reached an interim conclusion that neither the Group, nor its CEO and majority shareholder, have significant influence or control over Blooming Land.
In reaching this conclusion, the Directors have considered the relationship of the CEO with Blooming Land, including the CEOs business network, and have placed reliance on the CEOs representation, as set out on page 70 that he believes that he does not.
Were this to be otherwise, Blooming Land would be a related party of the Group.
The investigation into Blooming Land has identified a significant number of potential associations and linkages adjacent to the CEO.
Whilst not individually definitive, when taken together with other factors, including the multiple capacities in which the Groups CEO could interact with Blooming Land including as CEO of Ferrexpo, but also as a principal for Khimreaktiv and the controlling shareholder in Ferrexpo, we did not consider that we had obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to conclude whether the Group CEO did hold significant influence, held significant influence or exercised control.
Accordingly, we are unable to conclude whether the associated related party transaction disclosures are complete and accurate for the current and prior periods.
Had we been able to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence in respect of the above matters, adjustments might have been necessary to the financial information and disclosures for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our qualified opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: CSR payments and whether Blooming Land is a related party of the Group see basis for qualified opinion section above Related party disclosure other than in relation to Blooming Land Management override of controls Taxation transfer pricing Our assessment of the Groups key audit matters is consistent with 2017, except for: i the inclusion of management override of controls due to the matters and uncertainties noted in the basis for qualified opinion above: and ii the taxation key audit matter now only relates to transfer pricing due to a further reduction in the probability of a previously unrecognised deferred tax asset being recorded.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was US$18.1 million which was determined as 5% of the three-year average of profit before tax and special items.
Performance materiality was set at 50% of materiality.
Scoping We utilised Deloitte global member firms Component Auditors to report on the operations of the assessed components, comprising the three mining and processing entities in Ukraine and the Swiss and Middle East marketing companies.
Our audit scope results in all major operations of the Group being subject to audit work, covering in excess of 99% of the Groups revenue, 94% of the Groups profit before tax and 94% of the net assets.
Revisions to our As a result of the matters and uncertainties noted in the basis for qualified opinion, as required by planned audit International Standards on Auditing UK, we performed a reassessment of our audit risks and approach, approach including fraud risks.
Following which: i we involved Deloitte forensic specialists in our audit to review the scope and independence of the Independent Review, and to assist in our analysis of its findings and conclusions.
These specialists also supported us in performing due diligence procedures over certain counterparties identified during the audit: ii additional specific procedures were performed, in particular in relation to the risk areas of related parties and management override as outlined in the relevant Key Audit Matters section of this report: iii the extent of existing procedures were increased through reducing performance materiality of the group and components: iv the group scoping was revised with previously out of scope entities being subject to additional specified procedures in relation to their external revenue balance: v we performed a reassessment over our work on controls with particular emphasis on management review controls over significant account balances: vi we changed our overall audit approach such that we no longer place any reliance on controls and adopted a fully substantive audit: and vii we performed increased procedures on capitalisation of expenditure and certain expenses accounts including evaluating the business need and pricing for the services obtained and obtained audit evidence for the receipt of the underlying goods or service.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 102 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC CONTINUED Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we We have reviewed the Directors statement in Note 2 to the financial statements about whether they have nothing material considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their to report, add or draw identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over attention to in respect a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, the Directors assessment of forecast covenant compliance and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with have nothing material the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation to report, add or draw of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, attention to in respect we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: of these matters.
the disclosures on pages 38-47 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 48 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 48 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In addition to the matters described in the basis for qualified opinion section, we have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 103 Related party disclosure other than in relation to Blooming Land Key audit matter The Group enters into a substantial number of related party transactions and has reported an expense of description US$48.1 million and other income of US$1.0 million, of which US$27.7 million and US$0.9 million respectively relates to transactions with counterparties that are controlled by the Groups majority shareholder and CEO.
Our risk assessment and audit approach reflected the matters and uncertainties set out in the basis for qualified opinion, including the limitation of scope in relation to whether the Groups CEO and majority shareholder has significant influence or control over Blooming Land, and the previously unreported related party transaction in the year ended 31 December 2017 which was identified and disclosed during the Interim review for the six months ended 30 June 2018 as set out in Note 33.
There was therefore considered to be a key audit matter due to the heightened risk of undisclosed related party transactions and transactions entered into that are not transacted on an arms length basis and not disclosed as such.
This risk was considered greatest in the Ukrainian operations because of the developing regulatory environment.
Refer to Key Estimates and Critical Judgements section in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 73.
The related party disclosures are set out in Note 33 to the Financial Statements and the Companys controls and processes are described in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 74.
We reviewed and evaluated managements process for identifying and recording related party transactions How the scope of our and reviewed the design and implementation of managements controls around the approval of related party audit responded to the transactions both at the level of the Group and the individual entities.
key audit matter We challenged the adequacy of the Companys processes and controls in this area and its response to the previously unreported related party transaction.
We reviewed the minutes of meetings of the Board of Directors and relevant sub-committees to assess whether there are any new related party transactions entered into in 2018 that are significant or outside the normal course ofbusiness.
We used forensic tools to profile the counterparties for all transactions entered into by Ferrexpo in Ukraine during 2018 in order to identify those of greatest audit interest.
For these 128 and the 6 new counterparties in the year we performed detailed background checks using forensic experts in the UK and Ukraine to assist in the design and execution of our audit procedures.
We performed independent searches of the CEO and majority shareholders other business interests to test the completeness of the related party list.
We obtained the list of related parties confirmed by the Board of Directors and did not identify any counterparties on the list which were not included in the related party disclosures.
We reviewed an increased sample of underlying contracts to understand the nature and commerciality of any new or significant related party transactions and assessed whether they are executed on arms length basis.
In relation to the US$10.7 million paid for the sponsorship of FC Vorskla, which is wholly owned by the Groups CEO and majority shareholder, we have benchmarked the amounts paid versus the commercial income of other football clubs in Ukraine.
In relation to the US$9 million of this amount, which is paid to FC Vorskla Cyprus, an entity owned by a trust in turn controlled by the Groups CEO, we saw a confirmation from a representative of the football club confirming the use of funds.
We reviewed disclosure of related party balances and transactions to determine whether they were in compliance with IAS 24.
Key observations With the exception of the matters discussed in the basis for qualified opinion section above, the results of our testing were satisfactory and we concur that the related party transactions and balances are appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 104 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC CONTINUED Management override of controls Key audit matter In accordance with ISA 240 UK management override is presumed to be a significant risk.
The ability to description override controls puts management in a unique position to perpetrate or conceal the effects of fraud.
This may take a number of forms such as falsifying accounting entries in order to conceal misappropriation of assets or other manipulation of accounting entries intended to result in the production of financial statements which give a misleading view of the entitys financial position or performance.
We assessed an increased potential management override risk, as a result of the matters and uncertainties noted in the basis for qualified opinion, in relation to the purchase to pay controls, which we considered to be the most pervasive risk area for misappropriation of assets and undisclosed or non-commercial related party transactions, and overstatement of reported profit by manipulation of key estimates or journal entries.
Related party disclosure was also assessed as a separate key audit matter.
As a result of the increased potential management override risk, we have performed the following How the scope of our procedures in addition to other specific procedures performed which are outlined in the other Key Audit audit responded to the Matters and basis of qualified opinion section of this report : key audit matter We performed an account balance by account balance review for all operating and capital payments, to determine balances where substantive analytical procedures are no longer appropriate and supplemented those procedures with tests of detail.
We also deliberately increased unpredictability in our audit procedures.
We increased our testing over the nature of legal, consultancy and agency spend given the higher fraud risk that exists for these balances.
We increased our reliance on directly obtained third party evidence, such as direct revenue and debt confirmation and reduced our reliance on management representations.
We increased unpredictability in our audit procedures surrounding the testing of journal entries by reassessing the selection criteria we applied in our data analytics tools as a result of our revised risk assessment.
This included additional risk characteristics reflecting the CSR payments such as the updated related party list and searching for additional keywords of interest resulting in additional samples being substantively tested.
We held additional discussions with a broader range of senior management, being the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Marketing officer, Group legal counsel and with lower level operational management throughout the organisation and at different levels and in different functions, including the chief geologist, mine planner, head of production, chief surveyor and accounts payable clerks to identify if they are aware of any instances of override of controls.
We evaluated the design and implementation of key controls including, in particular high level management review controls and controls over purchase to pay procurement processes, as part of our risk assessment.
We reviewed internal audit reports to help identify significant control deficiencies and the whistle blower reports for any actual or suspected non-compliance with controls.
We changed our overall audit approach such that we no longer place any reliance on the operating effectiveness of controls and adopted a fully substantive audit with no control reliance approach.
In line with the initial audit plan, prior to the reassessment of audit approach, we also performed the following in order to address the risk of management override: We tested the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments recorded in the general ledger and other adjustments in the preparation of the financial statements: We evaluated whether the judgments and decisions made in determining the accounting estimates included in the financial statements, even if they are individually reasonable, indicate a possible bias on the part of the entitys management that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud: and We evaluated the business rationale for significant transactions that are outside the normal course of the business for the entity.
We held discussions with the Audit Committee, senior management and internal audit regarding the risk of fraud, effectiveness of key oversight controls and any fraud or suspected fraud identified during the year.
Key observations We did not identify any instances of management override of controls.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 105 Taxation transfer pricing Key audit matter The Group prices its sales between its subsidiaries using international benchmark prices for comparable description products covering product quality and applicable freight.
The Group judge these to be on terms which comply with applicable legislation.
In August 2017, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine SFS commenced a tax audit at the Groups major subsidiary in Ukraine with a focus on cross-border transactions in terms of its pellet sales to another subsidiary of the Group for the years 2013-2015.
The SFS issued its official tax audit report to the Group on 27 December 2018 with a claim representing a total exposure of US$16.2 million.
The Group submitted its objection to the SFS findings on 25 January 2019.
The SFS rejected managements responses on 11 March 2019 and management intend to initiate legal proceedings.
Ferrexpo assessed the risk of loss in relation to the claim as possible and has accordingly disclosed, rather than provided for, the US$16.2 million.
The Group evaluated the risk of further claims being received in respect of other entities or additional years, concluding that such exposure was remote.
Significant judgement is required in applying the transfer pricing rules and in determining the probability of any loss in connection with the Ukrainian tax audit and therefore this has been identified as a key audit matter.
This matter is described in Note 11 to the financial statements.
The taxation disclosure including accounting policies and description of key sources of estimation uncertainty are set in Note 11 and considered by the Audit Committee on page 73 of the annual report.
We involved tax specialists in Ukraine to assess appropriateness of the transfer pricing policies and How the scope of our documentation in place prepared by management.
audit responded to the key audit matter On a sample basis, we verified the calculation of prices for transactions that occurred in 2018 to be in line with the transfer pricing policy.
We reviewed the arguments set out in the statement of claim and underlying calculations, other correspondence with the SFS and the calculations of the assessed risk with assistance from UK tax and transfer pricing specialists.
In addition, we have reviewed recent similar cases in Ukraine and the results of court proceedings.
We reviewed the disclosure of these taxation balances to determine whether they were in compliance with IAS 12.
Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory and we concur that the tax provisions and disclosures are appropriate.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 106 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC CONTINUED Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Parent Company Group financial statements financial statements Materiality US$8.1 million 2017: US$16.5 million US$15.8 million 2017: US$14.4 million Basis for determining We have determined materiality by using 5% of a three-year average 2016 1.5% of Parent materiality 2018 of profit before tax and special items.
There were no special items in Companys net assets 2018 or 2017.
In 2016, they comprised US$2.5 million of inventory, property, 2017: 1.5% plant and equipment, receivables and prepayments and other write offs and US$8.5 million of allowance for the Bank Finance & Credit restricted cash balance.
In 2017, we used 5% of a two-year average 2016 2017 of profit before tax and special items in determining our materiality.
Rationale for the The profit before tax for the years 2016-2018 has been normalised in We consider the chosen benchmark applied determining materiality to exclude items which, due to their variable financial benchmark to be impact and or expected infrequency of the underlying events, are not appropriate due to the considered indicative of continuing operations of the Group.
These items do nature of Companys not form part of the Groups internally or externally monitored primary key operations being a performance indicators, and which if included, would distort materiality yearholding company of the on-year.
We consider this approach of using a three-year average to be more appropriate than an assessment based on current year results alone given the nature of the mining industry which is exposed to cyclical commodity price fluctuations and to therefore provide a more stable base reflective of the scale of the Groups size and operations.
We extended to a three-year average in 2018 following benchmarking to peer companies.
We set our 2018 performance materiality of US$9 million 2017: US$11.5 million at a level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
In determining performance materiality, we considered the increased risk arising from the CSR payments to Blooming Land and the subsequent investigation.
Group performance materiality therefore is set at 50% of group materiality for the 2018 audit 2017: 70%.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all audit differences in excess of US$900,000 2017: US$825,000 for the Group as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environments, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
The Groups Parent Company and finance company are UK based, while the head office and marketing companies are based in Switzerland and the primary mining operations are located in Ukraine.
As a result of the matters and uncertainties noted in the basis for qualified opinion, we performed an extensive reassessment of our audit and fraud risks following which: i we involved Deloitte forensic specialists in our audit to review the scope and independence of the Independent Review, and to perform analysis of its findings and conclusions.
These specialists also supported us in performing due diligence procedures over certain counterparties identified during the audit: ii additional specific procedures were performed, in particular in relation to the risk areas of related parties and management override as outlined in the relevant Key Audit Matters section of this report: iii the extent of existing procedures were increased through reducing performance materiality of the group and components: iv the group scoping was revised with previously out of scope entities such as the bunkering and logistics operations being subject to additional specified procedures in relation to their external revenue balance: v we performed a reassessment over controls with particular emphasis on management review controls over significant account balances.
vi we changed our overall audit approach such that we no longer place any reliance on controls and adopted a fully substantive audit: vii we performed increased procedures on capitalisation and certain expenses accounts including evaluating the business need and pricing for the services obtained and obtained audit evidence for the receipt of the underlying goods or service.
Considering operational and financial performance and risk factors, we focussed our assessment on the significant components and performed full scope audits of the Ukrainian FPM and FYM components and Ferrexpo plc entity along with specified group level audit procedures on the material external balances at the Swiss marketing entities FAG and FME being revenue and receivables, the nonoperating Ukrainian FBM component, Ferrexpo Finance plc and for the first time the Bunkering and Logistics businesses.
Our full scope and specified audit procedures cover revenue in excess of 99% of Group total, profit before tax 94% of Group total and net assets 94% of Group total.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 107 The remaining 21 components represent a 9% reduction of the Groups profit before tax and individually do not represent more than a 3% reduction of the Groups profit before tax.
The work performed by the component audit teams is guided by the Group audit team and is executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from US$9.1 million to US$14.5 million 2017: US$6.6 million to US$10.7 million.
The Group audit team was involved in the audit work performed by the component auditors in Ukraine and Switzerland through a combination of our global planning conference call meetings, a visit to the Ukrainian team and operations, provision of referral instructions including detailed supplemented procedures following the revised risk assessment, review and challenge of related component inter-office reporting and of findings from their work which included the audit procedures performed to respond to risks of material misstatement, attendance at component audit closing conference calls and weekly interaction on audit and accounting matters which arose.
Ferrexpo plc company only and Ferrexpo Finance plc are registered in the United Kingdom hence the audit and specified procedures were carried out by the Group audit team.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 108 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FERREXPO PLC CONTINUED Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of group and local management, internal audit, the Groups internal and external legal counsel and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team including significant component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations, pensions, IT, forensic and industry specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: CSR payments, related party disclosure, taxation-transfer pricing, revenue recognition, valuation of lean ore inventories, cost capitalisation and management override of controls: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, and tax legislation.
In addition, we considered compliance with the UK Bribery Act, employee legislation, terms of the groups mining licences and environmental regulations as fundamental to the groups operations.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified CSR payments, taxation transfer pricing, related party disclosure and management override of controls as key audit matters.
The basis for qualified opinion and key audit matters sections of our report explains the matters in more detail.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect discussed above: enquiring of management, the audit committee and external legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service: with respect to revenue recognition, we obtained direct third party confirmations of all iron ore sales during the year with detailed substantive procedures performed for any unreconciled differences and reviewed customer agreements, including identifying any pricing outliers: with respect to valuations of lean ore inventories: We audited the significant assumptions within the lean ore valuation calculations with reference to external third party support: We assessed the Groups ability to complete key capital projects, including the processing facility expansion programme Section 9, and the economic feasibility of processing lean ore versus the opportunity cost of processing higher grade ores: and In relation to capital projects, the Group audit team visited the mine in 2018 and observed the progress of key capital projects.
We also enhanced our detailed testing on capitalised expenditure and prepayments by: increasing the sample size of transactions, challenging the commercial rationale for the transactions selected, obtaining documentary support for the delivery of goods or services, checking that the cash payments were made to the correct supplier bank accounts and challenging whether the costs incurred qualified to be capitalised under IAS 16.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 109 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Arising solely from the limitation on the scope of our work referred to above: we have not obtained all the information and explanations that we considered necessary for the purpose of our audit.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our these matters.
audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006, we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of report in respect of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be these matters.
audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members at the Annual General Meeting on 27 May 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement of the firm is two years, covering years from our appointment through to the year ending 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Statement pursuant to section 837 4 of the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of Directors and the auditor In addition to their responsibilities described above, the Directors are also responsible for considering whether the Company, subsequent to the balance sheet date, has sufficient distributable profits to make a distribution at the time the distribution is made.
Our responsibility is to report whether, in our opinion, the subject matter of our qualification of our auditors report on the Ferrexpo plc financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 is material for determining, by reference to those financial statements, whether the distribution proposed by the Company is permitted under section 830 and section 831 of the Companies Act 2006.
We are not required to form an opinion on whether the Company has sufficient distributable reserves to make the distribution proposed at the time the distribution is made.
Opinion In our opinion, the subject matter of the above qualification is not material for determining by reference to these financial statements whether the final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of US$116 million proposed by the Company is permitted under section 830 and section 831 of the Companies Act 2006.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Christopher Thomas Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 22 April 2019
