Independent auditors report to the members of Ferguson plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements of Ferguson plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 July 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the Group income statement: the Group statement of comprehensive income: the Company profit and loss account: the Group and Company balance sheets: the Group cash flow statement: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity: the notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 to 34: and the notes to the Company financial statements 1 to 15.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key matters that we identified in the current year were: appropriateness of supplier rebates: inventory provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory: and accounting for the disposal of the Nordic businesses.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was $65 million 2017: 45 million which was determined on the basis of approximately 5% of profit before tax excluding exceptional items and impairment of interests in associates.
Scoping We performed full audits on the three key regions of continuing businesses, Head Office entities and the consolidation process, representing 99% of revenue, 99% of profit before tax and 98% of net assets.
Significant changes Our approach is consistent with the previous year with the exception of: inour approach the inclusion of an additional key audit matter relating to the accounting for the disposal of the Nordic businesses which were completed in the year: and the exclusion of the key audit matter relating to restructuring costs.
The Nordic related restructuring was completed during the prior year and in the context of our Group materiality level we have concluded that there is no longer a significant risk of material misstatement in the accounting for UK restructuring costs.
140 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of thesematters.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 44-49 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 69 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 45 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Appropriateness of supplier rebates Key audit matter As described in the Audit Committee report on page 63 as a significant judgement and the accounting policies in note 1 to description the financial statements, the Group recognises a reduction in cost of sales as a result of amounts receivable from suppliers in the form of rebate arrangements.
Where the rebate arrangements are non-tiered arrangements flat rate, there is limited judgement.
However, a proportion of the rebate arrangements comprise annual tiered volume rebates, for which the end of the period is often non-coterminous with the Groups year-end.
Notes 18 and 21 to the financial statements disclose the quantum of accrued supplier rebates at year-end.
There is complexity in supplier rebates which give rise to management judgement and scope for potential fraud or error in accounting for this income.
Judgement is required in estimating the expected level of rebates for the rebate year, driven by the forecast purchase volumes.
This requires a detailed understanding of the specific contractual arrangements themselves as well as complete andaccurate source data to apply the arrangements to.
How the scope of our We assessed the design and implementation of manual and automated controls over the recording of supplier rebate income.
audit responded to Our procedures on supplier rebates included: thekey audit matter in certain components, testing the operating effectiveness of the controls relating to supplier rebates: making inquiries of members of management responsible either for buying decisions or managing vendor relationships tosupplement our understanding of the key contractual rebate arrangements: testing the accuracy of the amounts recognised by agreeing a sample to individual supplier agreements: circularising a sample of suppliers to test whether the arrangements recorded were complete: testing the completeness and accuracy of the inputs to the calculations for recording supplier rebates by agreement to supporting evidence, including historical volume data.
We challenged the assumptions underlying managements estimates of purchase volumes including looking at the historical accuracy of previous estimates and historical purchase trends: recalculating the rebate recognised for a sample of suppliers: considering the adequacy of rebate related disclosure within the Groups financial statements: holding discussions with management to understand if there has been any whistleblowing: and testing a sample of rebate receivables to cash receipts, where relevant, to test the recoverability of amounts recorded.
Key observations We consider the Groups estimation methodology to be prudent based on a number of factors, including a look back at historical cash receipts.
However, the methodology is consistently applied year-on-year and the understatement of rebate income is not material to the financial position or the reported financial result as at 31 July 2018.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141 Independent auditors report to the members of Ferguson plc continued Inventory provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory Key audit matter The Group had inventories of $2,516 million at 31 July 2018, held in distribution centres, warehouses and numerous branches, description and across multiple product lines.
Details of its valuation are included in the Audit Committee report on page 63 and the accounting policies in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
As a result, the Directors apply judgement in determining the appropriate values for slow-moving or obsolete items.
As outlined in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, inventories are net ofaprovision of $164 million which is primarily driven by comparing the level of inventory held to future projected sales.
The provision is calculated within the Groups accounting systems using an automated process.
We consider the assessment of inventory provisions to require judgement based on the size of the inventories balance held at year-end and the manual intervention required in the calculation.
There is risk that inappropriate management override and or error may occur.
How the scope of our We challenged the appropriateness of managements assumptions applied in calculating the value of the inventory provisions by: audit responded to evaluating the design and implementation of key inventory provision controls operating across the Group, including those at thekey audit matter a sample of distribution centres, warehouses and branches: comparing the net realisable value, obtained through a detailed review of sales subsequent to the year-end, to the cost price of a sample of inventories and comparison to the associated provision to assess whether inventory provisions are complete: reviewing the historical accuracy of inventory provisioning, and the level of inventory write-offs during the year: recalculating for a sample of inventory items the required provision based on a look-back at historical demand over several years to predict forward future demand, to test the validity of the provisioning methodology: evaluating the business rationale behind any significant change in product strategy that had a consequential impact on inventory provisions recognised: and challenging the completeness of inventory provisions through assessing actual and forecast sales of inventory lines to assess whether provisions for slow-moving or obsolete inventories are valid and complete.
Key observations We consider the Groups provisioning methodology to be prudent when compared with historical levels of inventory writeoffs.
However, the methodology is consistently applied year-on-year and our estimate of the potential overstatement of the provision is not material to the financial position or the reported financial result as at 31 July 2018.
Accounting for the disposal of the Nordic businesses Key audit matter As described in the Audit Committee report on page 63 as a significant judgement and in notes 8 and 29 to the consolidated description financial statements, the Group completed its disposal of the Nordic businesses in the period with a resultant gain of $439 million.
The key judgements related to this key audit matter lie in the determination of the amount of foreign exchange balances to recycle from reserves and the balance sheet adjustments to net assets in respect of the completion accountsprocess for Stark Group.
How the scope of our Our procedures on the disposal included: audit responded to reviewing the completion account submissions and assessing the net asset values in light of the completion accounts thekey audit matter process, including managements estimation of any final payment or receipt: challenging the nature of the amounts recycled from reserves to the income statement to determine whether they relate to the entities disposed of or abandoned in the year: testing the quantum of the amount recycled from reserves back to underlying accounting records: and performing a completeness check on amounts remaining in reserves with reference to the Group structure, historical transactions and a proof of the closing balance.
Key observations We consider that the judgements taken by management in concluding on the total gain to be recognised in the financial statements are reasonable and materially consistent with the results of our audit work, reflecting the substance and nature ofthe businesses disposed of or abandoned.
142 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions ofareasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work andinevaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Materiality $65 million 2017: 45 million $30 million 2017: 23 million Basis for determining Approximately 5% of profit before tax excluding exceptional items Materiality was determined on the basis of materiality and impairment of interests in associates.
This was then  50% of Group materiality.
The profit before tax excluding exceptional items and impairment of interests in associates was $1,391 million which was $204 million higher than statutory profit.
The exceptional items we excluded from ourdetermination are explained furtherinnote 5.
We have also excluded impairment of interests in associates.
These amounts were excluded to normalise for items which are considered significant by virtue of their nature, size or incidence.
Rationale for the Profit before tax is a key metric for users of the financial statements The entity is non-trading and contains investments in benchmark applied and adjusting for exceptional items and impairment of interests in all of the Groups trading components and as a result, associates is to reflect the manner in which business performance is we have determined net assets for the current year to reported and assessed by external users of the financial statements.
Group materiality $65m $1,391m $65m Component materiality range $24m to $48m Audit Committee reporting threshold $3m PBT excluding exceptionals and impairment of interests in associates Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $3 million 2017: 2 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the three key regions of continuing businesses USA, UK and Canada.
Full audits were performed in these locations, as was the case in the prior year.
At the Group level we also tested Head Office entities and the consolidation process.
Of continuing results, this provided coverage of 99% 2017: 97% of revenue, 99% 2017: 99% of the profitbefore tax and 98% 2017: 98% of the net assets.
Revenue Profit before tax Net assets Full audit scope 99% 99% 98% Analytical procedures 1% 1% 2% The Group team is responsible for the Head Office entities and the consolidation.
The Group team carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
The component teams in the USA, UK and Canada perform audit work and report into the Group team.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to enhance our oversight of the component teams.
A senior member of the Group audit team visited each of the most significant locations where the Group audit scope was focused, being the USA, UK and Canada.
We included the component audit partners in our team briefing, sent detailed instructions to our component audit teams, reviewed their planned audit work and challenged their risk assessment.
We communicated regularly with all components to discuss the progress of their work and a senior member of the Group audit team performed a review of the work performed on significant risks and other areas of focus set out in our instructions.
For all components we attended the local close meetings.. Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143 Independent auditors report to the members of Ferguson plc continued Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of thesematters.
Responsibilities of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected toinfluence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit, and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: and the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations.
discussing among the engagement team including the USA, UK and Canadian component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, treasury, valuations and IT specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in relation to supplier rebates given the complexity of the annual tiered volume rebates and manual adjustments to revenue: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Jersey Law, Listing Rules, pensions legislation and tax legislation.
144 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified the appropriateness of supplier rebates as a key audit matter.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters.
Our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: profiling the manual revenue postings made and tested the appropriateness of a sample that met certain risk criteria: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with tax authorities: in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by our engagement letter In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act applied to the Company.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Company and their environment obtained in the course oftheaudit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received frombranches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration We are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration that would be required under the UK Companies Act 2006 have not beenmade or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Company on 12 November 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 July 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is three years, covering periods from our appointment to 31 July 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and or those further matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as abody, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Ian Waller Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Recognised Auditor London, UK 1 October 2018 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145
