39 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC Opinion Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and We have audited the Financial Statements of Fidelity European viability statement Values PLC for the year ended 31 December 2018, which comprise We have nothing to report in respect of the following information the Income Statement, the Statement of Changes in Equity, the in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us Balance Sheet, and the related Notes 1 to 20, including a summary to report to you whether we have anything material to add or of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework draw attention to: that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 13 United Kingdom Accounting Standards including FRS 102 The and 14 that describe the principal risks and explain how Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of they are being managed or mitigated: Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the Directors confirmation set out on page 13 in the Annual In our opinion, the Financial Statements: Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the give a true and fair view of the Companys affairs as at principal risks facing the entity, including those that would 31 December 2018 and of its loss for the year then ended: threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Directors statement set out on page 25 in the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Companies Act 2006. them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of Basis for opinion at least twelve months from the date of approval of the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Financial Statements: Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Statements section of our report below.
We are independent of Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that obtained in the audit: or are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, the Directors explanation set out on pages 14 and 15 in the including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to public interest Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in of the entity, over what period they have done so and accordance with these requirements.
why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Incomplete or inaccurate revenue recognition, including classification of special dividends Key audit matters as revenue or capital items in the income statement Incorrect valuation and defective title to the investment portfolio and derivatives Overall materiality of 9.55m which represents 1% of the Companys Net Asset Value as at Materiality 31December 2018 Key audit matters engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole and in our judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on Statements of the current period and include the most significant these matters.
assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 40 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC continued Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee We performed the following procedures: We have no matters Incomplete or inaccurate to report to the revenue recognition, including Walked through the revenue recognition Audit Committee process and obtained an understanding classification of special dividends with respect to our of the design and implementation of the as revenue or capital items in the procedures performed controls: over incomplete or income statement Agreed a sample of dividends to the inaccurate revenue Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee corresponding announcement made by recognition, including page 37 : Accounting policies page 47 : and the investee company and agreed cash classification of special Note 3 of the Financial Statements page 50 received to bank statements: dividends as revenue or capital items in the The Company has reported revenue of 33.76m Agreed, for a sample of investee income statement.
companies, the dividend announcements made by the investee company from an The investment income receivable by the external third party source to the income Company during the year directly affects entitlements recorded by the Company: the Companys ability to pay a dividend to Performed a review of the income and shareholders.
There is a risk that income capital reports to identify special dividends, is recognised incorrectly through failure to above our testing threshold, that have been recognise proper income entitlements or received and accrued during the period: applying appropriate accounting treatment.
For special dividends above our testing We identified the allocation of special dividends threshold, reviewed the underlying between revenue and capital to be a fraud risk circumstances and motives for the payments due to the level of judgement involved in this to verify the classification as revenue or allocation.
capital: Agreed all accrued dividends to an Special dividends can be included within either independent source and to post year end the capital or revenue columns of the Income bank statement to assess the recoverability Statement, depending on the commercial of these amounts: and circumstances behind the payments.
For a sample selected, we compared During the year the Company received 4 special the exchange rate used to translate the dividends, out of which 2 special dividends dividend income received in foreign amounting to 0.67m 2017: 0.36m were currency to an independent source.
41 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee We performed the following procedures: We have no matters Incorrect valuation and defective to report to the title to the investment portfolio Walked through the investment valuation Audit Committee process and obtained an understanding of and derivatives with respect to the design of the controls: our procedures Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee Independently valued 100% of the performed over page 37 : Accounting policies page 48 : and investments and derivatives prices in the incorrect valuation and Notes 10 and 11 of the Financial Statements portfolio using independent pricing sources: defective title to the pages 54 and 55 investment portfolio For those investments priced in currencies The valuation of investments and derivatives and derivatives.
other than sterling we compared the as at the year-end was 939.20m 2017: exchange rates to an independent source: 1,008.19m comprising 938.83m 2017: and 1,011.11m of listed investments and 0.37m of net derivatives 2017: 2.92 m. Agreed 100% of the holdings in the investment portfolio and derivatives to The valuation of the instruments held in the third party confirmations received from the investment portfolio is the key driver of the Custodian or Brokers and the Depositary.
Companys net asset value and total return.
The fair value of investments and derivatives is determined by reference to stock exchange quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the year-end date.
The incorrect valuation of the investment portfolio, including incorrect application of exchange rates, could have a significant impact on the Financial Statements.
In addition, there is a risk of defective title of the entire investment portfolio.
Key audit matters remain unchanged from the prior year.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 9.55m 2017: 10.30m, which is 1% 2017: 1% of the Net Asset Value of the An overview of the scope of our audit Company.
We have used the Net Asset Value of the Company as the basis for setting materiality as it provides the most important Tailoring the scope financial metric on which shareholders judge the performance of Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and the Company and it is a generally accepted auditing practice for our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit investment trust audits.
This enables us to form an opinion on the Financial Statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, Performance materiality the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of controls, The application of materiality at the individual account including controls and changes in the business environment when or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an assessing the level of work to be performed.
appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 7.16m 2017: 7.72m.
Materiality We have set performance materiality at this percentage due The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually to past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
the economic decisions of the users of the Financial Statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 42 Fidelity European Values PLC | Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC continued Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and Audit Committee reporting set out on page 36 the capital for the Company, we have also applied a separate section describing the work of the Audit Committee does testing threshold for the revenue column of the Income Statement not appropriately address matters communicated by us of 1.52m 2017: 1.00m being 5% 2017: 5% of the Net revenue to the Audit Committee is materially inconsistent with our return on ordinary activities before taxation.
knowledge obtained in the audit: or Reporting threshold Directors statement of compliance with the UK An amount below which identified misstatements are considered Corporate Governance Code set out on page 28 the as being clearly trivial.
parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.48m 2017: for review by the Auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 0.51m, which is set at 5% 2017: 5% of planning materiality, 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the Act 2006 quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the the Annual Report set out on page 26, other than the Financial audit: Statements and our Auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in Statements: and this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
the Strategic Report and Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Matters on which we are required to report by exception consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material Directors Report.
misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material you if, in our opinion: misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from We have nothing to report in this regard.
branches not visited by us: or In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors our responsibility to specifically address the following items in Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement the other information and to report as uncorrected material with the accounting records and returns: or misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 35 we have not received all the information and explanations the statement given by the Directors that they consider we require for our audit.
the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Responsibilities of Directors the information necessary for shareholders to assess the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Companys performance, business model and strategy, is responsibilities set out on page 35, the Directors are responsible materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being audit: or 43 Annual Report 2018 | Fidelity European Values PLC satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal reporting to the Directors with respect to the application of control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the the documented policies and procedures and review of the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material Financial Statements to ensure compliance with the reporting misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are A further description of our responsibilities for the audit responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a of the Financial Statements is located on the Financial going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going Reporting Councils website at https: www.
uk concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless .
This description forms part of our the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease Auditors report.
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Other matters we are required to address Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial We were appointed by the Company on 12 May 2016 to audit Statements the Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about and subsequent financial periods.
whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous issue an Auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable renewals and reappointments is 3 years, covering the years assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee ending 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2018. that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical can arise from fraud or error and are considered material Standard were not provided to the Company and we remain if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be independent of the Company in conducting the audit.
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud Use of our report The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Financial body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement state to the Companys members those matters we are required due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate to state to them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this with both those charged with governance of the entity and report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matthew Price Our approach was as follows: Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory Statutory Auditor frameworks that are applicable to the Company and London determined that the most significant are the Companies Act 14 March 2019 2006, the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code and Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The maintenance and integrity of Fidelity Internationals We understood how Fidelity European Values PLC is website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work complying with those frameworks through discussions with carried out by the Auditor does not involve consideration the Audit Committee and Company Secretary and review of of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the the Companys documented policies and procedures.
Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Companys Financial Statements to material misstatement, including how fraud 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation might occur by considering the key risks impacting the and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from Financial Statements.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved review of the INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
