36 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Opinion Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and We have audited the Financial Statements of Fidelity China Special viability statement Situations PLC for the year ended 31 March 2018 which comprise We have nothing to report in respect of the following information the Income Statement, the Statement of Changes in Equity, the in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the related Notes to report to you whether we have anything material to add or 1 to 22, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
draw attention to: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the disclosures in the Strategic Report set out on pages 12 preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting and 13 that describe the principal risks and explain how Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
they are being managed or mitigated: In our opinion, the Financial Statements: the Directors confirmation set out on page 11 in the Annual give a true and fair view of the Companys affairs as at report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the 31March 2018 and of its profit for the year then ended: principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as liquidity: adopted by the European Union: and the Directors statement set out on page 22 in the Financial have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to the Companies Act 2006. adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties Basis for opinion to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of We conducted our audit in accordance with International at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our Financial Statements: responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern Statements section of our report below.
We are independent of required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, obtained in the audit: or including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to public interest the Directors explanation set out on page 13 in the Annual entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in report as to how they have assessed the prospects of accordance with these requirements.
the entity, over what period they have done so and why We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient they consider that period to be appropriate, and their and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Incorrect allocation of special dividends between revenue and capital Key audit matters Valuation and existence of unlisted investments Valuation and existence of listed investments and derivatives Incorrect performance fee calculation Overall materiality of 15.0m 2017: 12.4m which represents 1% of the Companys Net Asset Materiality Value as of 31 March 2018 Key audit matters the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context Statements of the current period and include the most significant of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in our assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had these matters.
37 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee We performed the following procedures: The results of our Incorrect allocation of special procedures identified dividends between revenue and Walked through the revenue recognition no errors in the process to obtain an understanding of the capital allocation of special design of the controls: dividends between Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report Agreed a sample of special dividends to revenue and capital.
page 34 : Accounting policies page 47 : and the corresponding announcement made Note 3 of the Financial Statements page 50.
We confirmed by the investee company and agree cash the appropriate The Company had reported revenue of 29.0m received to bank statements: accounting 2017: 26.9m, out of which special dividends classification adopted Agreed, for a sample of investee comprised 4.6m 2017: 3.2m.
for the largest special companies, the special dividend dividends as revenue announcements made by the investee We identified the incorrect allocation of special or capital, including company from an external third party source dividends between revenue and capital to be the classification of the to the income entitlements recorded by the a fraud risk due to the requirement to exercise 1.5m dividend from Company: judgement and manual processing.
Dah Sing Financial Assessed the appropriateness of the Holding as capital Special dividends by their nature require the conclusion on the relevant treatment as and 1.3m dividend exercise of judgement as to whether the income documented by the Manager: from China Dongxiang receivable should be classified as revenue or Group as income.
For the sample selected, we compared capital for section 1158 Corporation Tax Act the exchange rate used to translate the 2010 CTA purposes.
The revenue column of dividend income received in foreign the income statement is the main driver of the currency to an independent source.
There is therefore a risk that an incorrect classification could potentially result in an under distribution of income and put the Companys investment trust status at risk.
The largest material special dividends received by the Company during the year were from: Dah Sing Financial Holding 1.5m : China Dongxiang Group 1.3m.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 38 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC continued Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee We performed the following procedures: The results of our Valuation and existence of procedures identified unlisted investments Walked through the unlisted investment no material errors valuation process to obtain understanding Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report in the valuation and and evaluate the design effectiveness of page 34 : Accounting policies page 48 : and existence of unlisted controls: Note 18 of the Financial Statements page 66. investments.
Assessed the valuation methodology The Company has unlisted investments at the used by the Fair Value Committee of FIL We considered the year end of 64.3m 2017: 37.2m.
Investment Services UK Limited and recent transaction confirmed that the methodology is in prices to be an As of 31 March 2018 the Company held four accordance with IFRS and International appropriate basis for 2017: three unlisted investments: Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation estimating the fair Guidelines: value of the unlisted Xiaoju Kuaizhi Inc Didi Chuxing valued at investments.
20.5m 2017: 17.2m : Assessed the assumptions and judgments made by the Fair Value Committee of FIL For the unlisted China Internet Plus Holdings valued at Investment Management in determining the investment Aurora 12.6m 2017: 8.0m : fair value of the unlisted securities held by Mobile Limited, we the Company as at the year end: noted the significant Shanghai Yiguo E-Commerce valued at uplift in value of this Obtained third party supporting evidence to 10.7m 2017: 12.0m.
corroborate the recent transactions used to investment based assign a fair value price to the Companys on the transaction Aurora Mobile Limited Jiguang valued at unlisted holdings and recalculated the fair completed shortly 20.5m, which was acquired during the year.
value used by the Company: after the year end.
Given the timing of the We considered that the degree of subjectivity, Compared 100% of exchange rates to a third party transaction, the level of management judgement and the risk relevant independent source: and announced shortly that the valuation does not reflect the most up to after the year end, Agreed 100% of unlisted investment holdings date information, potentially imposes a fraud risk we agreed that in the portfolio to third party confirmation over the valuation of unlisted investments.
the transaction received from the Custodian.
represented evidence of conditions that existed at the statement of financial position date.
Accordingly, the valuation was updated from its cost price of 9.4m to 20.5m in order to reflect the pricing implied by this recent transaction.
39 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee We performed the following procedures: For all listed Valuation and existence of listed investments and investments and derivatives Walked through the listed investment derivatives, we noted valuation process to obtain an Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report no material differences understanding of the design of the controls: page 34 : Accounting policies pages 48 and in market value or 49 : and Notes 10 and 11 of the Financial Independently verified valued 100% of the exchange rates.
Statements pages 54 and 55. listed investments and derivatives prices in the portfolio using independent pricing We noted no The valuation of the listed equities portfolio and sources and compared them to those exceptions or derivatives at 31 March 2018 was 1,434.1m sources of the Company: discrepancies between 2017: 1,273.3m comprising 1,431.4m 2017: the Custodian and 1,258.2m of listed securities and equity linked For those investments priced in currencies Brokers confirmations notes and 2.7m 2017: 15.1m of derivatives.
other than UK sterling we compared and the Companys the exchange rates to an independent underlying financial The valuation of the investments and derivatives source and recalculated the value of those records.
held in the portfolio is the key driver of the investments: and Companys net asset value and total return.
Agreed 100% of the holdings in the investment portfolio and derivatives to Incorrect asset pricing or a failure to maintain third party confirmations received from the proper legal title of the assets held by the Custodian or Brokers.
Company could have a significant impact on portfolio valuation and, therefore, the return generated for shareholders.
We performed the following procedures: The results of our Incorrect performance fee procedures identified calculation Inquired and obtained an understanding no material error in of the Managers and the Administrators Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report the performance fee systems and controls with respect to page 34 : Accounting policies page 48 : and calculation.
the net asset value NAV and NAV Note 4 of the Financial Statements page 51. return calculations used as the basis for We agreed that The Company has reported performance fee calculating the performance fees: there should be no expense of nil for the year ended 31 March performance fee Discussed the performance fee calculation 2018 2017: nil.
payable in respect methodology with representatives of the of the year ended Manager and the Audit and Risk Committee We focused on this area due to the importance 31March 2018. and compared the methodology used to the shareholders attribute to this profit related Investment Management Agreement: expense.
Walked through the process to obtain an understanding and evaluate the design effectiveness of controls in respect of performance fee measurement: Validated all key external inputs used in the calculations to third party source data: and Performed a recalculation to confirm there were no performance fees payable.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 40 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC continued There were no changes in key audit matters in comparison with We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the the prior year.
quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and Other information our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit The other information comprises the information included in the scope for the Company.
This enables us to form an opinion on Annual report set out on page 24, including the Strategic Report the Financial Statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, on pages 10 to 14 and Directors Report set out on pages 22 to the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of controls, 24, other than the Financial Statements and our Auditors report including controls and changes in the business environment when thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
assessing the level of work to be performed.
All audit work was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in Our application of materiality this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing thereon.
the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Materiality consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a of our audit procedures.
material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we We determined materiality for the Company to be 15.0m have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement 2017: 12.4m, which is 1% 2017: 1% of the Companys Net of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We believe that Net Asset Value provides the most important financial metric on which shareholders would judge We have nothing to report in this regard.
the performance of the Company and it is a generally accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in Performance materiality the other information and to report as uncorrected material The application of materiality at the individual account misstatements of the other information where we conclude that or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an those items meet the following conditions: appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 32 the statement given by the Directors that they consider On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our the Annual report and Financial Statements taken as a assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2017: the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 75% of our planning materiality, namely 11.3m 2017: 9.3m.
Companys performance, business model and strategy, is We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of audit: or misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Audit and Risk Committee reporting set out on page Reporting threshold 33 the section describing the work of the Audit and An amount below which identified misstatements are considered Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters as being clearly trivial.
communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would Directors statement of compliance with the UK report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of Corporate Governance Code set out on page 25 the 0.75m 2017: 0.62m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Given the importance Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Company, for review by the Auditor in accordance with Listing Rule we also applied a separate testing threshold of 1.1m 2017: 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a 0.8m for the revenue column of the Income Statement, being 5% relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
41 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Act2006 Statements In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from Companies Act 2006. material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee audit: that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements the information given in the Strategic Report and the can arise from fraud or error and are considered material Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on Statements: and the basis of these financial statements.
the Strategic Report and Directors Report have been Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify Matters on which we are required to report by exception and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Financial In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company Statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate Directors Report.
responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to with both those charged with governance of the entity and you if, in our opinion: management.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns Our approach was as follows: adequate for our audit have not been received by us: or We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors frameworks that are applicable to the Company and Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement determined that the most significant are the Companies Act with the accounting records and returns: or 2006, the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code and Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We understood the Company is complying with those frameworks through discussions with the Audit and Risk we have not received all the information and explanations Committee and the Company Secretary and review of the we require for our audit.
Companys documented policies and procedures.
Responsibilities of Directors We assessed the susceptibility of the Companys Financial As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Statements to material misstatement, including how fraud Responsibilities set out on page 32, the Directors are responsible might occur by considering the key risks impacting the for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being financial statements.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the Based on this understanding we designed our audit preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Our procedures involved review of the reporting to the Directors with respect to the application of In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are the documented policies and procedures and review of the responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a Financial Statements to ensure compliance with the reporting going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going requirements of the Company.
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease A further description of our responsibilities for the audit operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
of the Financial Statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors report.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 42 | Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC continued Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the Company on 30 November 2015 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ending 31 March 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 3 years, covering the years ending 31 March 2016 to 31 March 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company and we remain independent of the Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matthew Price Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor London 11 June 2018 Notes: 1.
Maintenance and integrity of the Fidelity International website is the responsibility of Fidelity International: the work carried out by the Auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
