40 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity Special Values PLC Opinion Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and We have audited the Financial Statements of Fidelity Special viability statement Values PLC for the year ended 31 August 2018 which comprise the We have nothing to report in respect of the following information Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Changes in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require in Equity, and the related Notes 1 to 20, including a summary of us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework draw attention to: that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 11 United Kingdom Accounting Standards including FRS 102 The and 12 that describe the principal risks and explain how Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic they are being managed or mitigated: of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the Directors confirmation set out on page 11 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the In our opinion, the Financial Statements: principal risks facing the entity, including those that would give a true and fair view of the Companys affairs as at threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or 31August 2018 and of its profit for the year then ended: liquidity: have been properly prepared in accordance with United the Directors statement set out on page 27 in the Financial Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of them, and their identification of any material uncertainties the Companies Act 2006 to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Basis for opinion Financial Statements: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern responsibilities under those standards are further described required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge Statements section of our report below.
We are independent of obtained in the audit: or the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, the Directors explanation set out on page 12 in the Annual including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to public interest Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in the entity, over what period they have done so and why accordance with these requirements.
they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient that the entity will be able to continue in operation and and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Incomplete or inaccurate investment and derivative income recognition including incorrect Key audit matters allocation of special dividends between revenue and capital Valuation, existence and ownership of investments and derivatives Overall materiality of 7.25m 2017: 6.70m which represents 1% of net asset value of the Materiality Company as of 31 August 2018.
Key audit matters engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in our judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on Statements of the current period and include the most significant these matters.
assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the 41 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee We performed the following procedures: The results of our Incomplete or inaccurate procedures identified investment and derivative income Walked through the revenue recognition no material errors in process to obtain an understanding of the recognition including incorrect the investment and design and implementation of the controls: allocation of special dividends dividend income Agreed a sample of investment and recognition and between revenue and capital derivative dividends to the corresponding allocation of special Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee announcement made by the investee dividends between page 38: Accounting policies page 48 : and company, recalculated the dividend amount revenue and capital.
Note 3 of the Financial Statements page 51 received and agreed cash received to bank We confirmed statements: The Company has reported investment and the appropriate derivative income of 22.6m for the year 2017: accounting Agreed, for a sample of investee 21.1m.
classification adopted companies, the dividend announcements for material special made by the investee company from an The investment and derivative income dividends, including external third party source to the income receivable by the Company during the year classification of 7.02m entitlements recorded by the Company: directly affects the Companys ability to pay a as capital.
There is a risk that Agreed a sample of accrued dividends income recognised incorrectly through failure to to an independent source and to post recognise proper dividend income entitlements.
year end bank statement to assess the recoverability of these amounts: We identified the allocation of special dividends between revenue and capital to be a fraud risk For a sample selected, we compared due to the level of judgement involved in this the exchange rate used to translate allocation.
the investment and derivative dividend income received in foreign currency to an Special dividends can be included within either independent source: the capital or revenue columns of the Income Statement, depending on the commercial Reviewed the income report and the circumstances behind the payments.
investment ledger report to identify material special dividends received in the year: During the year the Company has received 12special dividends amounting to 7.90m, Agreed, for a sample of investee out of which 7 special dividends amounting to companies, the dividend declared to the 7.02m was allocated to capital.
announcements made by the investee company to conclude whether it is a special Given this, we considered there to be a potential or ordinary dividend: fraud risk in relation to the allocation of special dividends between revenue and capital, in For all material special dividends, accordance with AIC SORP guidance, in this considered the recognition criteria applied area of our audit.
to the special dividends received during the year and their classification as revenue or capital.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 42 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity Special Values PLC continued Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee We performed the following procedures: The results of our Valuation, existence and procedures identified ownership of investments and Walked through the investment valuation no material error in process to obtain an understanding of the derivatives the value, existence design of the controls: and ownership of Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee Independently valued 100% of the investments and page 39: Accounting policies pages 49 and investments and derivatives prices in the derivatives.
50 : and Notes 10 and 11 of the Financial portfolio using independent pricing sources: Statements pages 54 to 56 For unquoted Reviewed the valuation methodologies used The valuation of investments and derivatives as investments we by the Fair Value Committee and confirmed at the year-end was 704.56m 2017: 655.60m, considered the recent they were performed in accordance with comprising 704.99m of investments and transaction prices to FRS102 and International Private Equity and 0.43 m of net derivatives 2017: 654.0m of be an appropriate Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines: investments and 1.6m of net derivatives.
basis for estimating the fair value.
For those investments priced in currencies The valuation of the assets held in the other than Sterling we compared the investment portfolio is the key driver of the We noted no exchange rates to an independent source: Companys net asset value and total return.
unreconciled and Total unquoted investments were 2.5m as at the differences between Agreed 100% of the holdings in the year end, comprising 1.5m of investments and the Custodian, investment portfolio and derivatives to 1.0m of derivatives.
Brokers or Depository third party confirmations received from the confirmations and the Incorrect asset pricing or a failure to maintain Custodian or Brokers.
Companys underlying proper legal title of the assets held by the financial records.
Company could have a significant impact on portfolio valuation and, therefore, the return generated for Shareholders.
There were no changes in key audit matters in comparison with the Company as of 31 August 2018.
We believe that Net Assets the prior year.
Value provides the most important financial metric on which Shareholders judge the performance of the Company and it is a An overview of the scope of our audit generally accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits.
Tailoring the scope Performance materiality Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and The application of materiality at the individual account our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an scope for the Company.
This enables us to form an opinion on appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of the Financial Statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the business environment when On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessing the level of work to be performed.
assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2017:75% Our application of materiality of our planning materiality, namely 5.44m 2017: 5.1m.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing We have set performance materiality at this percentage due the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on to past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Materiality Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually capital for the Company, we have also applied a separate or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence testing threshold for the revenue column of the Income Statement the economic decisions of the users of the Financial Statements.
of 0.78m 2017: 0.70m being 5% of the Net return on ordinary Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent activities before taxation.
Reporting threshold We determined materiality for the Company to be 7.25m An amount below which identified misstatements are considered 2017: 6.70m, which is 1% 2017: 1% of Net Asset Value of as being clearly trivial.
43 | Annual Report 2018 Fidelity Special Values PLC We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.36m 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a 2017:0.30m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the The other information comprises the information included in the audit: Directors Report set out on page 28, other than the Financial Statements and our Auditors report thereon.
The Directors are the information given in the Strategic report and the responsible for the other information.
Directors report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other Statements: and information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion the Strategic report and Directors reports have been thereon.
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our Matters on which we are required to report by exception responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we you if, in our opinion: have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from We have nothing to report in this regard.
branches not visited by us: or In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors our responsibility to specifically address the following items in Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement the other information and to report as uncorrected material with the accounting records and returns: or misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Fair, balanced and understandable, set out on page 37 the statement given by the Directors that they consider we have not received all the information and explanations the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a we require for our audit.
whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Responsibilities of Directors Companys performance, business model and strategy, is As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the Responsibilities set out on page 37, the Directors are responsible audit: or for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal Audit Committee reporting, set out on page 38 the control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material appropriately address matters communicated by us to the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Audit Committee: or In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are Directors Statement of Compliance with the UK responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a Corporate Governance Code, set out on page 30 the going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going parts of the Directors Statement required under the Listing concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY 44 | Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity Special Values PLC continued Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Other matters we are required to address Statements We were appointed by the Company on 30 November Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 2015 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ending whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from 31August 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable The period of total uninterrupted engagement including assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee previous renewals and reappointments is 3 years, covering that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always the years ending 31 August 2016 to 31 August 2018. detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be Standard were not provided to the Company and we remain expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on independent of the Company in conducting the audit.
the basis of these Financial Statements.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered the Audit Committee.
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify Use of our report and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate state to the Companys members those matters we are required responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected to state to them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and with both those charged with governance of the entity and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this management.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Our approach was as follows: Matthew Price Senior Statutory Auditor We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP frameworks that are applicable to the Company and Statutory Auditor determined that the most significant are the Companies Act London 2006, the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code 31 October 2018 and Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Notes: We understood how Fidelity Special Values PLC is complying 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Fidelity International with those frameworks through discussions with the Audit website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work Committee and the Company Secretary and review of the carried out by the Auditor does not involve consideration Companys documented policies and procedures.
of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the We assessed the susceptibility of the Companys Financial Financial Statements since they were initially presented on Statements to material misstatement, including how fraud the website.
might occur by considering the key risks impacting the Financial Statements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from Based on this understanding, we designed our audit legislation in other jurisdictions.
procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved review of the reporting to the Directors with respect to the application of the documented policies and procedures and review of the Financial Statements to ensure compliance with the reporting requirements of the Company.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
