Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of FirstGroup plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the Consolidated income statement: the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets: the Consolidated cash flow statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity: and the related notes 1 to 38 of the Consolidated results and 1 to 10 of the Parent Company results.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, andwe have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited bythe FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 157 Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Accounting for rail franchise contracts, including the forecast profitability of the TransPennine Express TPE and GreatWestern Railway GWR franchises, and the recognition of certain performance related amounts at GWR and SouthWestern Railway SWR receivable under the franchise contracts.
The assessment of the carrying value of First Student and Greyhound goodwill: Valuation and completeness of individually material and incurred but not reported claims forming part of the selfinsurance provision in North America: Valuation of pension scheme liabilities: and Accuracy of material manual adjustments to revenue recognition at First Student and First Transit.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 7.5 million which was determined on the basis of5.4% of loss before tax adjusted for intangible amortisation, bond make whole costs, impairment charges and TPE onerous contract provisioning.
Scoping We performed full scope audit procedures at each of the five operating divisions as well as certain Group central functions.
These components account for over 95% of the Groups net assets, revenue, and operating profit.
Significant changes Our audit approach for the current year included the following changes, as compared to our audit of the prior year: inour approach The inclusion of SWR within the scope of our audit following the commencement of the franchise in August 2017.
The key audit matter relating to the carrying value of goodwill was expanded at the planning stage of our audit to include Greyhound due to reduced forecast performance.
This key audit matter was also specifically focused on the forecast cash flows in the current year.
The key audit matter relating to the self-insurance provision in North America was focused on the valuation of individually material claims, and the incurred but not reported claims as well as the discount rate applied.
The revenue recognition key audit matter in the current year is specific to the accuracy of material manual adjustments to revenue in First Student and First Transit, as opposed to the whole group as in the prior year.
In the current year we have revisited our materiality calculation as the forecast results of the Group were revised.
We have also updated our approach to exclude the impact of bond make whole costs, impairments and TPE onerous contract provisioning.
158 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement on page 44 about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going We confirm that concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and wehave nothing Parent Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the material toreport, financial statements.
add or draw attention to We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement inrespect of required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained thesematters.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge We confirm that weobtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment wehave nothing of the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we material toreport, have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: add or draw attention to the disclosures on pages 34-39 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: inrespect of the directors confirmation on page 44 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, thesematters.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 44 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they havedone so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over theperiod of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by ListingRule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 159 Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of thecurrent period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
Thesematters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing theefforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Accounting for rail franchise contracts Key audit matter The Group operates a number of complex rail franchise contracts.
Judgement is required in the evaluation of the overall description profitability of the franchise contracts and whether they are onerous and as such require provision for future losses.
GWR and TPE franchise profitability This judgement includes consideration of the key assumptions regarding passenger revenue growth, costs, the impactofmajor infrastructure work, electrification and resignalling, introduction of new trains and negotiations with industry partners.
GWR and SWR Performance related amounts Judgement is also required in relation to the timing of recognition of certain performance related amounts the Group isentitled to receive under franchise contracts but the valuation of which was not finalised as at the year end.
Management has highlighted contract and franchise accounting as a key source of estimation uncertainty in note 2 to theconsolidated financial statements and the Audit Committee has identified this as a Significant Issue or Judgement intheir report.
How the scope The audit procedures we performed in respect of the key audit matter included: ofour audit responded to the GWR and TPE franchise profitability key audit matter Walking through the process undertaken by Management in estimating the forecast profitability and the design and implementation of key controls: Challenging Management to understand the key drivers forming the basis of the franchise profitability forecasts: Reviewing and challenging Managements key assumptions by reference to independent industry sources and relevant supporting evidence and sensitising the impact these have on managements assessment of the profitability of the two contracts: Recalculating the relevant forecasts: Assessing and challenging Managements expected range of possible outcomes: and Reviewing the related financial statement disclosures.
Performance related amounts in GWR and SWR Gaining an understanding of Managements process for recognising performance related amounts and the calculation of anyamount to be deferred and assessing the design and implementation of key controls: Reviewing the calculations performed by Management and the correspondence with industry partners: Assessing the appropriateness of the treatment of performance regime compensation recognised in the income statement and deferred on the balance sheet.
Key observations The results of our procedures were satisfactory and we concur with the judgements made and the resulting accounting for rail franchise contracts, noting the following observations: GWR and TPE franchise profitability We concluded based on the available evidence that: Managements assessment that the GWR franchise contract will remain profitable, and that no onerous contract provision is required is reasonable: The onerous contract provision of 106.3 million recorded by Management in respect of TPE is reasonable.
Performance related amounts in GWR and SWR We concluded that performance related amounts recognised in the income statement during the year and deferred on the balance sheet at year end are reasonable.
160 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Forecast margin used in the valuation of First Student and Greyhound goodwill 1,138 million Key audit matter The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill, as described in note 2, involves judgement in relation to forecasting description future cash flows.
At the planning stage of our audit we identified the Cash Generating Units CGU most sensitive to variation in future cash flows to be the First Student CGU 1,137.6 million: 2017: 1,271.1 million and Greyhound CGU nil: 2017: 291.9 million, as disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements.
In the current year we focused on the forecast margin within Managements discounted cash flow model given this is the area where the most significant judgement is required.
Headroom for First Student has decreased in reported sterling from 709.2 million at 31 March 2017 to 662.5 million at 31 March 2018.
An impairment loss of 277.3 million has been recognised as the recoverable amount calculated by Management was less than the carrying value of the Greyhound CGU.
The impairment loss of 260.6 million was first allocated to Goodwill, which has been fully written down, and the remaining impairment loss of 16.7 million was allocated to the other tangible and intangible assets of the CGU on a pro rata basis according to the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU.
Management has highlighted impairment of intangible assets including goodwill as a key source of estimation uncertainty in note 2.
The Audit Committee report on page 65 refers to the carrying value of First Student and Greyhound goodwill as one of the significant issues and judgements considered by the Audit Committee.
How the scope The audit procedures we performed in respect of this key audit matter included: ofour audit gaining an understanding of Managements process for developing their impairment models and assessing the design responded to the and implementation of key controls: key audit matter agreeing the underlying forecasts to the Board approved three year plan: meeting with Divisional Management teams to understand and challenge forecasts in detail: testing the underlying assumptions within the cash flow projections impacting the forecast margin including estimates around contract retention at First Student and passenger revenue growth and cost assumptions at Greyhound by reference to third party data: challenging the terminal growth and discount rate assumptions used within the impairment models by reference to market data: assessing cash flow projections with reference to historical trading performance and forecasting accuracy: considering the reasonableness of, and recalculating, the sensitivity assessment applied by Management: performing further independent sensitivity analysis on the impairment model: and considering the appropriateness of the disclosure on reasonably possible changes.
Key observations We concluded that taken together the assumptions applied in the final impairment models are reasonable.
We consider the disclosure around the sensitivity to be proportionate to the level of judgement.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 161 Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Valuation of the self-insurance provision in North America 311 million Key audit matter The underlying calculation of the North American self-insurance reserves is subject to judgement based on the volume description and severity of claims.
We have identified a key audit matter in relation to the valuation of the individually material claims within the North American self-insurance provision and the estimated value of incurred but not reported IBNR claims as well as the discount rate applied.
Management has highlighted self-insurance provisioning as a key source of estimation uncertainty in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Audit Committee report on page 65 refers to North America self-insurance provisions as one of the significant issues and judgements considered by the Audit Committee.
The provision is disclosed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
How the scope The audit procedures we performed in respect of this key audit matter included: ofour audit gaining an understanding of Managements process for developing the North American self-insurance reserves, responded to the including how Management ensures the completeness of IBNR claims, and assessing the design and implementation key audit matter of key controls: meeting with the Management and their external actuary to challenge key assumptions: working with our actuarial specialists in North America to independently develop an actuarial calculation and comparing the provision recorded to the actuarial range calculated by Management and their external actuary, considering the methodologies employed and comparing assumptions used to the Groups historical experience: and challenging the appropriateness of the discount rate used through comparison to market rates.
Key observations We are satisfied that the assumptions used are reasonable and that the valuation of the North American self-insurance reserve is reasonable.
Valuation of pension scheme liabilities 6,139 million Key audit matter The Group operates in a labour intensive industry with large membership to a number of defined benefit pension description schemes.
The valuation of gross pension liabilities, as disclosed in note 36 is materially sensitive to changes in the underlying assumptions adopted in respect of the discount, inflation, and mortality rates.
Management has highlighted defined benefit pension arrangements as a key source of estimation uncertainty in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Audit Committee report on page 65 refers to Pensions as one of the significant issues and judgements considered by the Audit Committee.
How the scope The audit procedures we performed in respect of this key audit matter included: ofour audit gaining an understanding of Managements process for determining the underlying assumptions and assessing the responded to the design and implementation of key controls: key audit matter working with our actuarial specialists to test the estimates determined by Management and its external actuary considering the methodologies employed and comparing assumptions used to the Groups historical experience and to listed and industry benchmarks: and challenging the appropriateness of the discount, inflation and mortality rates used through comparison to those used by similar entities.
Key observations We are satisfied that taken together the assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the liabilities are reasonable and that the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities is reasonable.
We consider the disclosure around the sensitivity ofthe liabilities to reasonably possible change to be proportionate to the level of judgement.
162 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Accuracy of material manual adjustments to revenue recognition processes Key audit matter As described in the Significant accounting policies in note 2 revenue transactions across the Group are predominantly description high volume and low value.
In some instances, revenue recorded may be subject to manual adjustments to reflect the timing and valuation of revenue recognised, for example where amounts are unbilled at the year end.
The accuracy of recording any such material manual adjustments to revenue represents a key risk of material misstatement to revenue due to fraud.
This includes manual adjustments to accrued or deferred income balance sheet items that impact revenue in the income statement.
The key audit matter applies to the First Student and First Transit divisions, due to the judgement required in assessing the level of unbilled revenue accrued on contracts in those divisions at year end.
We focus on these divisions as we have not identified such unbilled balances in the other divisions of the Group.
The Audit Committee report on page 65 refers to Revenue recognition as one of the significant issues and judgements considered by the Audit Committee.
How the scope The audit procedures we performed in respect of this risk included: ofour audit gaining an understanding of Managements process for ensuring the accuracy of manual adjustments to revenue and responded to the assessing the design and implementation of key controls: key audit matter understanding the judgements taken by Management in determining material manual adjustments at First Student and First Transit, their accuracy and the associated deferred and accrued income: recalculating the accuracy of material accrued income balances and reviewing supporting documentation on a sample basis: and auditing revenue related journal entries by selecting items that demonstrated characteristics of being manual in nature by agreeing them to supporting documentation to determine the rationale for the entries.
Key observations The results of our procedures were satisfactory and we did not identify inappropriate manual adjustments to revenue.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 163 Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality 7.5 million 2017: 9.0 million 6.0 million 2017: 8.0 million Basis for We determined materiality for the Group to be 7.5 million Parent Company materiality represents less than 1% determining 2017: 9.0 million, which is 5.4% 2017: 4.3% of loss ofnet assets 2017: less than 1%.
materiality before tax of 326.9 million adjusted for intangible amortisation of 70.9 million, bond make-whole payments of 10.7 million, impairment of 277.3 million and TPE onerous contract provision of 106.3 million.
Rationale for We consider a profit measure the most appropriate The Parent Company is a holding company which thebenchmark basisfordetermining materiality as this is the measure on doesnot produce revenue and therefore a revenue or applied which business performance is analysed.
The exclusion profit benchmark would not be relevant.
Net assets was of amortisation, bond make whole costs, impairments considered the most relevant benchmark for the nature and the TPE onerous contract provision is consistent with ofthe Parent Company the key measure used by the Group for internal and external reporting.
Benchmark profit measure Group materiality 7.5m Group materiality Component materiality range 3.0m to 6.0m Benchmark profit measurement 138.3m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.375m Benchmark profit measure is calculated as the loss before tax adjusted for intangible amortisation, bond make-whole payments, impairment and TPE onerous contract provision.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 375,000 2017: 300,000 for theGroup, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the AuditCommittee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls over key audit areas, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the FirstGroup America component First Student, First Transit, Greyhound and the North American self-insurance captive entity thethree significant Train Operating Companies GWR, TPE and SWR, the First Bus Division as well as certain Group central functions.
TheSWRfranchise is new to the Group during the current year and represents a change to the scope of our audit.
The locations subject to full audit procedures represent the principal business units and account for over 95% of the Groups net assets, revenueand operating profit.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at locations subject to full audit procedures was executed at levels of component materiality of between 3.0 million and 6.0 million applicable to each individual location.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
The Group audit team have directed and supervised the work of the component audit teams during the course of the year.
We included all component teams in our team briefing, discussed their risk assessment and remained in contact throughout the audit process.
The Senior Statutory Auditor met all component teams and held meetings with Management at all components to discuss the work performed.
In relation tothe current year the Senior Statutory Auditor of the Group audit team visited the FirstGroup America component team in September 2017, March 2018 and May 2018.
Other senior members of the Group audit team also visited the FirstGroup America component in October 2017 andJanuary 2018.
The Group audit team have reviewed documentation of the findings from the component audit teams work.
164 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the We have nothing to annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements andfor being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Parent Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Parent Companys members those matters we are required to state to them inan auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Parent Company and the Parent Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 165 Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc continued Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or these matters.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors We have nothing to remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with report in respect of the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed on 2 March 1999 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 1999 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 20 years, covering the years ending 31 March 1999 to 31 March 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Mark Mullins, FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 31 May 2018 166 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018
