Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report Opinion Conclusions relating to principal risks, We have audited the financial statements of F&C Investment Trust PLC going concern and viability statement the Company for the year-ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Income Statement, Statement of Changes in Equity, Balance We have nothing to report in respect of the following information Sheet, Statement of Cash Flows and the related Notes on the Accounts in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to 1 to 27.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting attention to: Standards including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard The disclosures in the annual report set out on page 20 that applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom describe the principal risks and explain how they are being Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The directors confirmation set out on page 20 in the annual report In our opinion, the financial statements: that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal Give a true and fair view of the Companys affairs as at 31 December risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its 2018 and of its loss for the year then ended.
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom The directors statement set out on page 32 in the financial Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their Companies Act 2006. identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Basis for opinion Whether the directors statement in relation to going concern We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities in the audit.
for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
The directors explanation set out on page 21 in the annual report We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements what period they have done so and why they consider that in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to public period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to in accordance with these requirements.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 53 Overview of our audit approach Key audit Incorrect valuation or defective title of the unquoted investment portfolio and resulting matters impact on the Income Statement.
Incomplete or inaccurate revenue recognition through incorrect allocation of special Audit dividends between revenue and capital.
Scope Incorrect valuation or defective title of the quoted investment portfolio.
Overall materiality of 34.9m which represents 1% of net assets.
Materiality Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement statements of the current period and include the most significant team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
54 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Independent Auditors Report Key observations Risk Our response to the risk communicated to the Audit Committee Incorrect valuation or defective title of the We obtained an understanding of the Companys and the PE Managers processes and The results of our procedures unquoted investment portfolio and resulting controls for the valuation of the unquoted investments by performing walkthrough identified no material impact on the Income Statement 267.8m, procedures and inspecting the PE Managers internal control reports.
misstatement in the 2017: 226.7m valuation or existence of the We obtained an understanding of the governance structure and protocols surrounding quoted investment portfolio.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 49 : the valuation process from the Managers Investment Trust Accounting team.
This Accounting policies page 65 : and Note 10 of the included the primary controls of reconciling cash movements in monthly reported Based on the work Financial Statements page 73.
NAVs to underlying notices of calls and distributions and bank statements, reading performed we have no internal control reports of the PE Managers and performing a reasonableness analysis matters to report.
The Company holds investments in Private of variances between reported and audited NAVs.
We observed the oversight at Board Equity PE through funds or partnerships level through reading minutes and board packs from Audit Committee and Board which are managed by HarbourVest Partners meetings throughout the year.
LLC HarbourVest, Pantheon Ventures UK LLP Pantheon and various other managers We performed a back-testing exercise to assess the historical accuracy of HarbourVest selected by BMO Investment Business Limited and Pantheons estimated 2017 investment valuations.
We compared the Companys the Manager together the PE Managers : the investment values per the 2017 audited Company financial statements which were at latter are held either directly by the Company or the time estimates to the unquoted investment values subsequently reported within indirectly through PE Investment Holdings 2018 the audited HarbourVest and Pantheon fund financial statements for the same period.
For PE investments that are in the We held meetings with HarbourVest, Pantheon and the Manager to discuss and Managers selected funds we make no distinction challenge: as to whether they are held directly by the The annual performance of the funds in which the Company held an investment Company or indirectly by PE LP.
The net asset value NAV of the PE funds The reasons for the variances noted between estimated and actual NAVs for the is based on estimates and unaudited NAV year-ended 31 December 2017. statements produced by the PE Managers.
The Whether, based on any recently available information there should be any Manager applies various controls to the valuation adjustments required to the estimated 31 December 2018 NAVs.
process which are subject to oversight by the Board.
Controls over the valuation process We compared the Companys valuation methodology to the requirements of United include: the reconciliation of cash movements to Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the NAV statements received, reading internal Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and control reports from HarbourVest, Pantheon Republic of Ireland FRS 102. and the Manager, reading audited financial We agreed the NAV of the HarbourVest and Pantheon funds per the Company to the statements as well as the portfolio reports for the estimated 31 December 2018 NAV statements.
underlying PE fund investments and performing We agreed the NAV of the other Manager selected funds from the Company records a reasonableness analysis of variances between at 31 December 2018 to the 30 September 2018 NAV statements from the underlying prior years reported and audited NAVs.
managers adjusted for quarter 4 cash flows and foreign exchange movements.
We focus on the valuation of unquoted As the 31 December 2018 NAV statements received show estimated NAVs we investments because there is the risk that considered the reasonableness of the fair value adjustments made to the actual inaccurate judgments made in the assessment 30 September 2018 reported NAV and challenged any unusual variances being any of fair value could materially misstate the value variance other than foreign currency revaluations and cash flow movements.
of the investment portfolio in the Balance Sheet, We recalculated the unrealised profits on the revaluation of all unquoted investments.
the unrealised gains or losses in the Income Statement and the NAV per share.
For a sample of unquoted investments, we confirmed the realised gains or losses to the notices received from the relevant PE Manager.
For the unquoted investments, realised profits are calculated as the difference between distribution We recalculated the valuation of all unquoted investments in foreign currencies using proceeds less return of capital.
Specifically in third party exchange rates to gain assurance over the reasonableness of currency rates relation to our procedures on management used.
override, we considered the risk that the Manager We agreed the total committed capital directly to the Limited Partnership Agreements or the Board may influence the unquoted of the PE funds and the drawn-down capital to independent confirmations received investment valuations in order to meet market directly from the PE Managers.
expectations of the overall NAV of the Company.
To test for the risk of management override we tested a sample of manual journal entries posted in relation to unquoted investments during the year to relevant support.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 55 Key observations Risk Our response to the risk communicated to the Audit Committee Incomplete or inaccurate revenue recognition through incorrect We obtained an understanding of the Managers processes and The results of our procedures allocation of special dividends between revenue and capital 4.5m, controls for the recognition of investment income by performing identified no issues with the 2017: 3.8m walkthrough procedures and reading their internal control reports accuracy or completeness to understand the design effectiveness of controls.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 49 : Accounting policies We concurred with the page 66 : and Note 3 of the Financial Statements page 68.
We agreed a sample of special dividends from the income accounting treatment for received report to bank statements and to an external source to Special dividends represent dividends paid by investee companies special dividends.
that are additional to the normal or expected dividend cycle for that Based on the work Company.
In accordance with the SORP, special dividends can be We tested the recognition basis for a sample of special dividends performed we have no included within either the revenue or capital columns of the Income to ensure that they were appropriately allocated between matters to report.
Statement, depending on the commercial circumstances behind the revenue and capital within the Income Statement.
As such, there is a manual and judgemental element in For the samples we tested, we have recalculated income allocating special dividends between revenue and capital leading received from overseas investments to gain assurance over the to a risk of incorrect allocation.
The revenue column of the Income measurement and recognition of income in foreign currencies.
Statement is the main driver of the minimum dividend calculation.
There To test for the risk of management override, we have tested a is therefore a risk that an incorrect classification could potentially result sample of manual journal entries posted to the income account in an under distribution of income and put the Companys investment and corroborated their business purpose.
There is also a risk that the revenue column is overstated to increase the dividend paid to shareholders.
Incorrect valuation or defective title of the quoted investment We obtained an understanding of the Managers and the The results of our portfolio 3,449.9m, 2017: 3,699.9m Administrators processes and controls for the valuation of the procedures identified no quoted investments by performing walkthrough procedures and material misstatement in Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 49 : Accounting policies reviewing the Managers and the Administrators internal control the valuation or existence page 65 : and Note 10 of the Financial Statements page 73. reports.
of the quoted investment The Company holds a portfolio of quoted investments both in the UK portfolio.
We agreed all of the quoted investment holding prices to relevant and Overseas.
The quoted portfolio is managed by the Manager who in independent sources using a range of third party pricing vendors.
Based on the work turn sub delegates the role of investment management for a proportion performed we have no of the portfolio to T. Rowe Price International Ltd and Barrow, Hanley, We reviewed the stale pricing reports to assess the liquidity of matters to report.
Mewhinney and Strauss LLC together the SubManagers for their investments held.
experience in the United States equities market.
We recalculated the value of all quoted investments in foreign The fair value of investments within the portfolio is based on the quoted currencies to verify the accuracy of the corresponding Sterling bid value at the Balance Sheet date.
There is a risk of incorrect valuation of the investment portfolio, We obtained an understanding of the Administrators, including incorrect application of exchange rate movements and Depositarys and the Custodians processes and controls for asset assessment of stock liquidity which could result in the Balance Sheet recognition by inspecting their internal control reports.
and Income Statement being materially misstated.
We inspected the year-end reconciliation of the Companys The Directors are responsible for implementing systems and controls investment holdings stated in the accounting records to the to ensure that the assets of the Company are not susceptible to Custodians investment holdings report and corroborated any misappropriation and other fraud or error.
Certificates of investment ownership are held by JP Morgan Chase the We obtained confirmation from the Custodian and Depositary Custodian and not directly by the Company.
JP Morgan Europe Limited of all securities held at the period end and agreed these to the the Depositary has a legal obligation to reconcile the investment Companys records.
holdings stated by State Street Bank and Trust Company the Administrator and the Custodian.
There is a risk of assets being misappropriated and the ownership of investments being unsecured.
56 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Independent Auditors Report An overview of the scope of our audit Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for investment trusts we have also applied a separate testing Tailoring the scope threshold of 3.9m 2017: 3.5m for the revenue column of the Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our Income Statement, being 5% of the net return on ordinary activities allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for before taxation.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation Reporting threshold of the Company and effectiveness of controls, including controls and An amount below which identified misstatements are considered changes in the business environment when assessing the level of as being clearly trivial.
All audit work was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1.7m 2017: 1.8m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences Our application of materiality below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the qualitative grounds.
audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of Materiality other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Other information Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and The other information comprises the information included in the extent of our audit procedures.
annual report set out on pages 1 to 100, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are We determined materiality for the Company to be 34.9m 2017: responsible for the other information.
We believe that net assets is the most appropriate measure as it is the primary measure Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other that investors use to assess the performance of the Company.
information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality thereon.
and made no changes to the basis of calculation from our original assessment at the planning stage.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Performance materiality consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent The application of materiality at the individual account or balance with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude of the Companys overall control environment, our judgment was that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning are required to report that fact.
We have set performance materiality at this level based on our understanding of the control We have nothing to report in this regard.
environment that indicates a lower risk of material misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Report and Accounts 2018 | 57 In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of if, in our opinion: the other information where we conclude that those items meet the Adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns following conditions: adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 52 the The financial statements and the part of the Directors statement given by the directors that they consider the annual Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced accounting records and returns: or and understandable and provides the information necessary for Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business not made: or model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge We have not received all the information and explanations we obtained in the audit: or require for our audit Audit Committee reporting set out on page 47 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately Responsibilities of directors address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate out on page 52, the directors are responsible for the preparation of Governance Code set out on page 37 the parts of the the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible Governance Code.
for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either Opinions on other matters prescribed by intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of Companies Act 2006. the financial statements In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the audit: financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, The information given in the strategic report and the directors whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report report for the financial year for which the financial statements are that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in The strategic report and directors reports have been prepared in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement accordance with applicable legal requirements: when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users Matters on which we are required to taken on the basis of these financial statements.
report by exception Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company of detecting irregularities, including fraud and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and identified material misstatements in the strategic report or directors assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements report.
due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 58 | F&C Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Strategic Report Governance Report Auditors Report Financial Report Notice of Meeting Other Information Independent Auditors Report the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
This However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection description forms part of our auditors report.
of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the Company on 26 April 2016 to audit the Our approach was as follows: financial statements for the year-ending 31 December 2016 and We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory subsequent financial periods.
frameworks that are applicable to the Company and determined The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous that the most significant are the Companies Act 2006, the Listing renewals and reappointments is three years, covering the years Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Association of ending 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2018.
Investment Companies Statement of Recommended Practice 2017 The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were and Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. not provided to the Company and we remain independent of the We understood how the Company is complying with those Company in conducting the audit.
frameworks through discussions with the Audit Committee and The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Company Secretary in combination with a review of the Companys Audit Committee.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Companys financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud Use of our report might occur by considering the key risks impacting the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, statements.
We identified a fraud and management override in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. risk relating to the journal entries applied to the income account Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the including for the categorisation of special dividends.
We also Companys members those matters we are required to state to them identified the risk of management override with relation to in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent journals used in the valuation of unquoted investments.
Our audit permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to procedures stated above for Incomplete or inaccurate revenue anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a recognition through incorrect allocation of special dividends body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have between revenue and capital and Incorrect valuation or defective formed.
title of the unquoted investment portfolio and resulting impact on the Income Statement are tailored to address this risk.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures Julian Young Senior statutory auditor to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor procedures involved review of the reporting to the Directors London with respect to the application of the documented policies and 11 March 2019 procedures and review of the financial statements to ensure compliance with the reporting requirements of the Company.
The maintenance and integrity of the F&C Investment Trust PLC page of the Bank of Montreal website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
