Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 151 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FRESNILLO PLC OPINION In our opinion: Fresnillo plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Fresnillo plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Parent Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the Parent Company statement of cash flows for the year year then ended then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year Related notes 1 to 17 to the financial statements including then ended a summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 30 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
152 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FRESNILLO PLC CONTINUED CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 28 to 41 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on pages 125 and 126 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 43 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on pages 42 and 43 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters Recognition of related party transactions, including revenue recognition.
Valuation of the Silverstream contract.
Recoverable amount of mining assets.
Recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries Parent Company only.
Re-estimation of quantities held in leaching pads at Herradura.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components, being the 5 operating mining units and the Parent Company.
These components accounted for: 100% of Revenues: 92% of Profit before tax, excluding Silverstream revaluation effects and the gain from the part payment of an insurance claim: and, 81% of Total assets.
In addition, we performed specified procedures on specific balances at a further 4 components.
These components accounted for: 100% of the Silverstream revaluation effects: 8% of Profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects and the gain from the part payment of an insurance claim: and, 17% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of US$23.4 million which represents 5% of forecast profit before tax, prior to Silverstream revaluation effects and the gain from the part payment of an insurance claim of an insurance claim.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 153 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the table below, each key audit matter is attributed an icon which is used to map these to our components in scope in the subsequent section below.
KEY AUDIT MATTER RECOGNITION OF RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS, INCLUDING REVENUE RECOGNITION All of the Groups current year revenue from the sale of goods, being concentrates, dor, slag and precipitates US$2,102.7 million: 2017: US$2,084.0 million, and a significant amount of its expenses incurred US$133.2 million: 2017: US$111.6 million, arise from transactions with related parties.
These related parties are principally subsidiaries of the Groups direct Parent, Industrias Peoles Peoles.
Principal transactions include the sale of goods to the Met-Mex Peoles refinery, administrative services received and the Silverstream contract.
There is a risk that, if not at arms length or not reflecting the goods or services provided in the period, such transactions could be used to manipulate earnings or to distribute profits to the Groups parent.
There is also a risk that revenues are inappropriately recognised as a result of incorrect cut-off or inappropriate measurement of product sold.
There is an ongoing focus by the Mexican tax authorities on transfer pricing as reflected by the current tax inspections.
There is therefore the potential risk of tax exposures arising from related party transactions.
Our judgment is that the level of risk in this area remains Related party transactions are disclosed in note 26 to the consistent with the prior year.
consolidated financial statements, Revenues in note 4 and relevant accounting policies in note 2.
We have not made significant changes to our audit response compared to the prior year.
OUR AUDIT RESPONSE We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in 6 components, which covered 100% of the aggregate risk amount relating to revenue and 61% relating to related party expenses.
In addition we performed specified procedures in 1 component which covered 38% of the aggregate risk amount relating to related party expenses.
We also performed specified procedures over the Silverstream contract, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
Identification of related We evaluated the appropriateness of managements process for identifying, recording and parties and related party reporting related party transactions and tested relevant controls.
transactions We read contracts and agreements with related parties to understand the nature of the transactions.
Throughout the performance of our audit procedures, we remained alert for any related party transactions not already identified by management or that are outside the normal course of business.
Revenue recognition On a sample basis we performed testing to verify physical deliveries of product in the year.
We performed revenue cut-off testing, by reference to shipment dates.
We evaluated the appropriateness of the accounting for embedded derivatives arising from the provisional pricing terms in sales contracts.
We obtained an understanding of the basis of the treatment and refining charges negotiated between the Group and Peoles for the current year, these being deducted from revenue.
We confirmed principal inputs to external benchmarks and confirmations received directly from the auditor of Peoles.
We performed overall analytical procedures which consisted of comparing actual revenues on a disaggregated basis to detailed expectations developed based on production in the year and market prices for relevant metals and obtained explanations for any material variances.
Related party expenses On a sample basis we tested related party expenses against underlying contractual terms.
We utilised data analysis tools to interrogate entire data sets for potential related party transactions.
We compared actual results against detailed expectations of income statement line items impacted by related party transactions to corroborate that there was no evidence of manipulation.
Silverstream contract We tested a sample of cash receipts in respect of silver that is payable under the contract in the year.
The valuation of the Silverstream contract is discussed separately below.
Accuracy of disclosures We verified that related party disclosures in the financial statements are consistent with the results of our audit procedures.
154 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FRESNILLO PLC CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTER Transfer pricing We, along with our internal transfer pricing specialist, obtained and reviewed the most recent report considerations for 2017 to management from its transfer pricing specialists.
We assessed the specialist as a specialist engaged by management.
Our transfer pricing specialist inspected information to support transactions between Fresnillo and Peoles.
Management override We performed overall analytical review procedures applying a low variance threshold at a disaggregated level, comparing production quantities against the mine plans.
We obtained explanations for variances through interviews with management and the Executive Committee, internal reporting to the Executive Committee and published production reports.
Where relevant, we corroborated those explanations through EYs bespoke data analysis tools and external sources of information.
We also used EYs data analysis tools to search for terms indicating related parties and prepared a summary of transactions related to known related-party vendors and customers, which we compared to the schedule provided by management to the Audit Committee.
KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Our procedures did not identify issues with the identification, recording or reporting of related party transactions.
We concluded that revenue recognition in the year is appropriate, including the treatment of related provisional pricing terms.
In respect of transfer pricing in transactions with related parties, we confirmed that the methodology for determining transfer pricing in respect of the transactions with other Peoles companies has not changed during the year.
KEY AUDIT MATTER VALUATION OF THE SILVERSTREAM CONTRACT The valuation of the Silverstream contract US$519.1 million at 31 December 2018: 2017: US$538.9 million, a derivative financial instrument, is estimated by management using a discounted cash flow model.
Key assumptions are the estimation of the reserves and resources and the related production profile of the Sabinas mine owned and operated by Peoles, future silver prices and the discount rate applied.
These assumptions require management judgment and estimation.
The resulting valuation is sensitive to changes in these assumptions which may result in material revaluation effects in the financial statements US$15.0 million pre-tax gain in 2018: 2017: US$133.7 million pre-tax gain.
Our judgment is that the level of risk in this area remains The nature of the Silverstream contract and related valuation consistent with the prior year.
considerations are disclosed in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements and the relevant accounting policies We have not made significant changes to our audit response in note 2. compared to the prior year.
OUR AUDIT RESPONSE We performed specified procedures over the valuation of the Silverstream contract at 31 December 2018 and related income statement revaluation effects.
These procedures covered 100% of the risk amount.
Valuation model In conjunction with our valuation specialists, we evaluated the appropriateness of the valuation approach and related model used by the Company to determine the fair value of the Silverstream contract under accounting standards.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 155 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS KEY AUDIT MATTER Reserves and resources We interviewed the Sabinas mine geologist in order to understand the assumptions used in the and production profile of estimation of reserves and resources and movements in the estimation in the year.
the Sabinas mine We issued instructions to the auditor of Peoles to perform procedures and report to us in respect of the reserves and resources estimate and mine plan of the Sabinas mine.
These procedures included: conducting walkthroughs to confirm our understanding of Peoles managements processes to estimate quantities of reserves and resources and to develop the Sabinas mine plan: testing of certain key Peoles controls which address the risks associated with the estimation of reserves and resources quantities and the accuracy of the resulting mine plan: gaining an understanding of reasons for changes in estimates of reserves and resources in the year: assessing the professional competence, objectivity, and capabilities of Peoles internal specialists involved in the estimation of reserves and resources quantities: and evaluating the reasonableness and appropriateness of inputs to the reserves and resources estimates and Sabinas mine plan as at 31 December 2018.
We discussed the results of the above procedures with the auditor of Peoles and reviewed key working papers.
Key economic With assistance from our valuation specialists we corroborated key economic assumptions in assumptions in the the valuation, including future silver prices, foreign exchange rates and the discount rate applied.
valuation This included comparison to market data to consider the appropriateness of silver price and discount rate assumptions when considered together in the valuation model and analysis of the consistency of assumptions to other accounting estimates.
We performed sensitivity analysis on the combination of silver price assumptions and discount rate.
KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The valuation model is consistent with that used in prior periods and we consider this appropriate for the nature of this long-term derivative contract.
We highlighted the sensitivity of the valuation to economic input assumptions, most significantly silver price and discount rate.
We concluded that the overall valuation of the contract is within a reasonable range.
KEY AUDIT MATTER RECOVERABLE AMOUNT OF MINING ASSETS The identification of indicators of impairment is judgmental.
When an impairment test is performed, the key assumptions underpinning managements assessment of the recoverable amount of mining assets are reserves and resources and related mine plans and production profiles, estimated future operating and capital expenditure, future commodity prices, exchange rates and the discount rates applied.
The estimation of mineral reserves and resources quantities of the Groups mines requires significant judgment and estimation.
The Groups reserves and resources are audited by SRK, a specialist engaged by management.
Changes to assumptions could lead to material changes in estimated recoverable amounts, resulting in impairment of property plant and equipment net book value being US$2,693.1 million, 2017 US$2,448.6 million.
There is no impairment taken in prior years that may be reversed.
Managements assessment of the judgement and estimation required is set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial Our judgment is that the level of risk in this area remains statements, with results of managements assessment for consistent with the prior year.
The reserves and resources tables are presented on pages 245 to 247, after the Parent We have not made significant changes to our audit response Company notes.
compared to the prior year.
156 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FRESNILLO PLC CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTER OUR AUDIT RESPONSE We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in 5 components, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
Indicators of impairment We reviewed managements identification of indicators of impairment under accounting standards.
and methodology used We assessed the methodology used by management to estimate the recoverable value of each to estimate recoverable mining asset for which an impairment test was performed to ensure that this is consistent with values accounting standards.
We have assessed the valuation models used by management to estimate the recoverable value of each asset.
Estimation process for We walked through the process of the estimation of the reserves and resources quantities and reserves and resources tested relevant controls.
We walked through the process of converting the estimation of the reserves and resources quantities to mine plans and tested relevant controls.
External specialists We assessed SRK as a specialist engaged by management.
engaged by Through discussions with SRK, we have gained an understanding of the scope of their work to verify management that this was appropriate.
We engaged our own specialist geologist to evaluate the information provided by managements geologist.
We read the report of the external specialist and gained an understanding of the changes in reserves and resources estimates in the year.
Key internal assumptions We agreed related production profiles to the current mine plans for each mine and considered their used in managements consistency with our understanding of future plans at the mines obtained through interviews with estimate of the both operating and senior management.
recoverable values We assessed operating and capital costs included in the cash flow forecasts for consistency with of mining assets current operating costs and forecast mine production.
Key external assumptions Working with our valuation specialists we assessed managements assumptions relating to future used in managements metals prices and discount rates, comparing these to market data and also for consistency with estimate of the other estimates used in the financial statements.
recoverable values We have performed sensitivity analysis on managements calculated recoverable values for of mining assets alternative assumptions around the discount rate applied.
KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We assessed SRK as an appropriate specialist engaged by management for the purposes of auditing the reserves and resources of the Group.
We confirmed that the audited reserves and resources estimates have been appropriately used in relevant financial statement calculations.
We consider the approach to determining the recoverable value of mining assets tested for impairment to be appropriate.
Our procedures confirmed that the reserves and resources and related production profiles used in impairment testing are consistent with the estimates audited by SRK and respective mine plans.
Our procedures confirmed that the estimates of operating and capital costs are consistent with the production profiles of respective mines and related mine plans.
We concluded that the carrying values of mining assets are recoverable at 31 December 2018.
KEY AUDIT MATTER RECOVERABLE AMOUNT OF INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES PARENT COMPANY ONLY Investments in subsidiaries US$7,141 million, 2017 US$7,094 million are more sensitive to changes in recoverable value than the Groups underlying mining assets because these investments were re-measured at fair value in 2008 when the Group was established ahead of its Initial Public Offering.
The principal driver of the recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries is the estimated value of underlying mining assets held by the Groups subsidiaries.
Refer to related considerations in the related key audit matter above.
In addition, management estimates the recoverable value of exploration projects in considering the recoverable value of subsidiaries.
Changes to assumptions could lead to material changes in estimated recoverable amounts, resulting in either impairment or reversals of impairment taken in prior years.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 157 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our judgment is that the level of risk in this area has Managements assessment of the judgement and estimation increased as a result of performance at certain mines required is set out in note 2 to the Parent Company financial being below expectation in the year.
statements, with managements assessment of investments in subsidiaries included in note 5.
OUR AUDIT RESPONSE We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in 1 component, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
Key internal assumptions We have assessed the methodology used by management to estimate the recoverable value of used in managements each investment for which an impairment test was performed to ensure that this is consistent with estimate of the accounting standards.
recoverable value Refer to the key audit matter above with respect to procedures performed relating to the recoverable value of mining assets.
We have evaluated managements approach to valuing exploration prospects.
Key external assumptions Refer to the key audit matter above with respect to procedures performed relating to the used in managements recoverable value of mining assets.
estimate of the We have performed sensitivity analysis on managements calculated recoverable values for recoverable value alternative assumptions around the discount rate applied.
KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We concluded that the carrying values of mining assets, the principal driver of the recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries, are reasonable.
We highlighted the sensitivity of the recoverable value, and therefore impairment charges or reversals, to economic input assumptions, most significantly silver and gold prices and the discount rate applied.
We consider that managements discount rates applied are at the lower end of an acceptable range.
We reported sensitivity analysis to demonstrate the financial impact of changing this assumption.
KEY AUDIT MATTER RE-ESTIMATION OF QUANTITIES HELD IN LEACHING PADS AT HERRADURA The recoverable quantity of gold from leaching pads is an estimate requiring consideration of a number of variables and is likely to evolve over time as further information is obtained from ongoing leaching activities and analysis of the ore deposited.
Following new information obtained in the year related to humidity and the grade of content in solution, management updated its estimate of the gold content in the Herradura leaching pads.
This resulted in an increase in the estimated remaining gold content as at 1 January 2018 from 23 koz to 122 koz.
Management has accounted for this increase prospectively, by increasing the number of ounces in inventory as at 1 January 2018, therefore reducing the weighted average unit cost of production.
This impact reduced cost of sales in the year by US$76.8 million.
We consider that there is a risk of manipulation of the estimate as a result of management judgment involved in interpreting the results of the new analysis in the year in combination with ongoing recovery information from the pads.
This includes the extent to which this new information is extrapolated across the full extent of the Herradura leaching pads.
There is also judgment involved in the timing of the recognition of the change in estimate and the related effects on the financial statements.
This is a new risk for the year.
Inventories are disclosed in note 14 and cost of sales in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
The relevant We have designed and executed specific audit responses to accounting policies are set out in note 2. address the risk in the current year.
158 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FRESNILLO PLC CONTINUED OUR AUDIT RESPONSE We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in the impacted component, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
Methodology applied We assessed managements geologist involved in estimating the recoverable quantity of gold to make estimate from leaching pads as a specialist.
We engaged an external specialist geologist to evaluate the information provided by managements internal geologist.
We, along with our specialist, obtained an understanding of managements process and methodology to determine the revised estimate of quantities held in leaching pads: assessed the appropriateness of the methodology applied including changes as compared to prior periods: evaluated the basis for judgments applied, including the appropriateness of applying the new information to the entirety of the Herradura leaching pads: challenged whether the information obtained at Herradura suggests recovery rates for other mines in the mining district should be revised.
Calculation of estimate We assessed whether the adjustment represents a change in estimation or a prior year error.
and related financial We recomputed the calculation of estimated gold content performed by management, agreeing statement effects inputs to prior year working papers where relevant.
We performed sensitivity analysis on the primary inputs to the calculation, being humidity and gold content in solution.
We reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements to confirm their accuracy and clarity.
Management override As the evaluation of related controls requires the evaluation of the assumptions used in, and the output of, that process, we do not seek to rely on these controls.
We increased the level of challenge when performing our substantive procedures, including the engagement of a specialist as discussed above.
KEY AUDIT MATTER KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE As heap leach recovery rates are an estimate that continues to be refined as new information is obtained, we consider it reasonable that management updated its estimate to reflect new information obtained in the current year.
We therefore agree with management that it is appropriate for the adjustment to be accounted for prospectively in 2018.
We highlighted the judgmental nature of the assumptions applied in the computation of the adjustment and demonstrated the potential range in the estimate of recoverable gold using sensitivity analysis.
We concluded that there was a reasonable basis for the final assumptions used in the estimate and their application to the entire Herradura leaching pads.
As such we concluded that there was adequate basis for the additional quantity and resulting accounting effects in the year.
PRINCIPAL CHANGES AS COMPARED TO THE PRIOR YEAR ARE DETAILED BELOW: This year we have included a new Key Audit Matter Re-estimation of quantities held in leaching pads at Herradura.
During 2017 and 2018, management assayed ore samples that were removed from an existing pad at Herradura in order to build a pathway to new leaching pads.
The new information obtained from the assays resulted in a re-estimation of the remaining gold content of the leaching pads and a corresponding adjustment to inventory volumes.
Given the judgment involved in this re-estimation and the size of the adjustment we consider this a new significant and fraud risk in the year.
In the prior year, our audit report included a key audit matters in relation to Disclosures, provisions and asset carrying value arising from the El Bajio Ejido conflict.
In light of a decrease in associated risk following favourable court rulings and a reduced possible financial statement impact, we no longer consider this a significant risk in the current year.
In the prior year, our audit report included a key audit matters in relation to Potential tax uncertainties arising from tax authority inspections and changes in legislation.
In light of no recent updates to legislation or significant new inspections, this area was not a key audit matter for this years audit.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 159 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT TAILORING THE SCOPE Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components 2017: 5 full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
These components cover the operating mining units in Mexico and the Parent Company.
In some instances operating mining units include more than one operating mine: the Penmont mining unit includes the Herradura, Noche Buena and Soledad & Dipolos mines additionally in 2017 the Fresnillo mining unit included the Fresnillo and the San Julin mines.
We also performed specified audit procedures on specific account balances in a further 4 components 2017: 5.
The procedures were on those account balances within those components which we deemed to be significant either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
These accounts included taxation, mine closure provisions, property, plant and equipment and cash and cash equivalents and all balances relating to the Silverstream contract.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures represented: Key Full scope Specified procedures Other procedures 8% 4% 2% 2% 100% 100% 100% 100% 17% 16% 96% 92% 82% 81% 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Revenue Silverstream revaluation e ect profit before tax Assets Excludes sales, Silverstream revaluation effects and gain on sale of concessions.
The audit scope of components at which we perform specified procedures may not include testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage reflected above.
The remaining components together represent an effect on the Groups Profit before tax excluding Silverstream revaluation effects and the receipt of a part payment received in respect of an insurance claim of less than 1% 2017: 1 % and 2% of total assets 2017: 2%.
For these components, we perform other procedures, including analytical review and testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements.
CHANGES FROM THE PRIOR YEAR In the current year, following the San Julin phase II mining unit coming on stream in summer 2017, we have separated the Fresnillo and San Julin mining units into two components, representing the individual operating mines.
We have also removed Las Torres from our scope to reflect the stability in managements estimation of mine rehabilitation costs.
160 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FRESNILLO PLC CONTINUED INVOLVEMENT WITH COMPONENT TEAMS All of the Groups significant operations are in Mexico and are audited by one local team under our direct supervision.
Work performed by Primary team One component team under our direct supervision Full scope components Parent company Components on which specified audit procedures are performed Silverstream contract In respect of the valuation of the Silverstream contract, we perform primary procedures directly.
The component team performs certain supporting procedures regarding cash receipts, and the auditor of Peoles provides support in respect of procedures on the estimation of reserve and resource quantities and the related mine plan at the Sabinas mine.
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by the component auditor operating under our instruction.
Of the 6 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 1 of these directly by the primary audit team.
For the 4 components at which specified procedures were performed, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The primary engagement team, including the Senior Statutory Auditor, visited Mexico four times during the audit, during both the planning and execution phases, with members of the team working with and supervising the component team in Mexico for a number of weeks over several visits.
These visits involved discussion and oversight of the component team audit approach, consideration of any accounting and auditing issues arising from their work, reviewing key audit working papers, meeting with management and attending closing meetings.
In addition, in the last two years members of the primary engagement team, including the Senior Statutory Auditor, visited three of the Groups mining operations.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Senior members of the component team attended a Global Team Planning Event in the planning phase of the audit, the Post Interim Event after hard close procedures and interacted regularly with the local team between visits to Mexico as appropriate.
The primary engagement team is predominantly composed of Spanish speakers in order to further enhance our interactions with both the component team and management.
The primary team was responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
For certain procedures, in particular areas involving significant judgement and heightened audit risk, we performed work ourselves with support where required from the component team.
In other cases, we reviewed key working papers including, but not limited to, the risk areas described above.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
MATERIALITY The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
US$ million We determined materiality for the Group to be US$23.4 million 15.0 13.7 2017: US$31.0 million, which is 5% 2017: 5% of profit before 500 tax prior to Silverstream revaluation effects and the receipt of 400 469.0 a part payment received in respect of an insurance claim, a 470.3 one-off material item subject to roundings.
We believe this 300 measure of profit represents one of the principal considerations 200 for members of the Group, particularly as the Silverstream revaluation effects are principally non-cash in nature and the 100 receipt of a part payment in respect of an insurance claim is a 0 one off transaction.
In the prior year an adjustment had been profit Silverstream Saucito Basis for made to exclude the one-off gain on the sale of a concession.
before revaluation insurance materiality tax e ect claim During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and updated its calculation for the actual financial results of the year.
This resulted in a decrease of materiality compared to that calculated at the planning stage of the audit, due to a decrease in precious metals prices in the last quarter of the year.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be US$70.0 million 2017: US$70.5 million, which is 1% 2017: 1% of equity.
The materiality of the Parent Company is higher than that of the Group, reflective of the Parent Companys primary role being that of a holding company.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 161 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely US$17.5 million 2017: US$23.2 million.
We based this judgement on factors including the past history of misstatements, our ability to assess the likelihood of misstatements and the effectiveness of the internal control environment.
Key audit matter : Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial 23.3 Fresnillo group 17.2 statement accounts is undertaken based on a 133.5 718.2 percentage of total performance materiality.
The 19.8 Fresnillo plc 584.7 12.9 performance materiality set for each component 11.6 is based on the relative scale and risk of the Penmont mining 10.5 component to the Group as a whole and our 11.6 assessment of the risk of misstatement at that Saucito mining unit 9.5 component.
The performance materiality allocated 2017: N A to full-scope components in the current year is set San Julin mining 5.1 out in the graph to the right.
15.1 Fresnillo mining unit 4.8 Allocated performance materiality decreased in 5.8 respect of all components, reflecting the overall Cinega mining 2.6 performance of the Group.
The icons correspond to the key audit matters set out above.
Audit procedures in respect of the recoverable amount of investments in subsidiaries are performed at the performance materiality of the standalone parent financial statements.
REPORTING THRESHOLD An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$1.1 million 2017: US$1.5 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 150 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 119 to 129 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 101 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
162 Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF FRESNILLO PLC CONTINUED OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 150, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group.
We determined that the most significant which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those related to the reporting framework IFRS, the Companies act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code, regulations impacting mining operations including mining laws, environmental and labour regulations and tax and employee profit sharing requirements in Mexico.
We understood how Fresnillo plc is complying with those legal and regulatory frameworks by making enquiries to management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the Company secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes and papers provided to the Audit Committee.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand where it is considered there was a susceptibility of fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their propensity to influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings.
We considered the programs and controls that the Group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those programs and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free of fraud or error.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 163 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
OTHER MATTERS WE ARE REQUIRED TO ADDRESS We were appointed by the Company on 4 May 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 11 years, covering periods from our initial appointment in 2008 through to the year ended 31 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Daniel Trotman Senior statutory auditor FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, STATUTORY AUDITOR London 26 February 2019
