INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF G4S PLC BASIS FOR OPINION REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE We conducted our audit in accordance with FINANCIAL STATEMENTS International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities OPINION under ISAs UK are further described in the In our opinion: Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial G4S plcs Group financial statements and parent statements section of our report.
We believe that company financial statements the financial the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and statements give a true and fair view of the state appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit Independence and cash flows for the year then ended: We remained independent of the Group in the Group financial statements have been properly accordance with the ethical requirements that are prepared in accordance with International Financial relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, European Union: as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in the parent company financial statements have accordance with these requirements.
been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Standard were not provided to the Group or the Framework, and applicable law : and parent company.
the financial statements have been prepared Other than those disclosed in note 10 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the to the Group or the parent company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IASRegulation.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH We have audited the financial statements, included within the Integrated Report and Accounts the Context Annual Report, which comprise: G4S is an integrated security company specialising in the provision of security and related services to the consolidated statement of financial position at customers in over 90 countries across four Secure 31 December 2018: Solutions reportable segments and one Global Cash the parent company statement of financial position reportable segment, which in 2018 for the purposes at 31 December 2018: of our audit were arranged into five regions.
the consolidated income statement for the year then ended: Overview the consolidated statement of comprehensive Materiality income for the year then ended: Overall Group materiality: 17 million 2017: 20 the consolidated statement of changes in equity for million, which represents approximately 5% of the year then ended: adjusted profit before tax, being profit before tax the parent company statement of changes in after adding back certain items that are separately equity for the year then ended: reported on the face of the consolidated income statement including specific and other one-off the consolidated statement of cash flows for the items, restructuring costs and profit loss on year then ended: and disposal.
the notes to the financial statements, which include Overall parent company materiality: 14 a description of the significant accounting policies.
million 2017: 15 million, which represents Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the approximately 1% of net assets.
Audit scope Our audit included full scope audits of the five regions.
The regional audits were supported by full scope audits at 56 country components with specified audit procedures on selected financial statement line items performed at a further seven country components.
Taken together, the components at which either full scope audit work or specified audit procedures on selected financial statement line items were performed accounted for 72% of consolidated revenue and 73% of consolidated profit beforetax.
132 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Areas of focus As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk Onerous contract provisioning of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence Goodwill impairment of bias by management that represented a risk of Uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets material misstatement due to fraud and the risk of Compliance with payroll laws and regulations fraud in revenue recognition.
Procedures designed to address these risks included testing of material Income statement presentation journal entries and post-close adjustments, testing and evaluating managements key accounting estimates The scope of our audit for reasonableness and consistency, undertaking cutAs part of designing our audit, we determined off procedures to check proper cut-off of revenue materiality and assessed the risks of material and testing the occurrence and accuracy of revenue misstatement in the financial statements.
In addition, we incorporate an element particular, we looked at where the directors made of unpredictability into our audit work each year.
subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making Key audit matters assumptions and considering future events that are Key audit matters are those matters that, in the inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding auditors professional judgment, were of most of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to significance in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and to the industry in which it operates the current period and include the most significant and considered the risk of acts by the Group which assessed risks of material misstatement whether or were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at the those which had the greatest effect on: the overall Group and component levels to respond to this risk, audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the recognising that the risk of not detecting a material audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk team.
These matters, and any comments we make of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud on the results of our procedures thereon, were may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, addressed inthe context of our audit of the financial forgery or intentional misrepresentations or through statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion collusion.
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion We designed audit procedures that focused on the on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks risk of non-compliance related to, but not limited identified by our audit.
to, compliance with payroll, foreign ownership rules and tax laws and regulations.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, review of significant component auditors work, review of Internal Audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements and audit of the financial statement disclosures.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We found payroll compliance and tax to be key audit matters and these are discussed further below.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 133 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF G4S PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Onerous contract provisioning Refer to Audit Committee report on page 98 and to Our approach to testing complex contracts starts with an evaluation of managements note 32 of the Group financial statements.
process to identify and quantify onerous and at-risk contracts.
Management focuses on the top 25 contracts by region and on contracts with margins of less than 3%.
Certain of the Groups contracts are onerous and We performed scanning analytics on contract margins and investigated unusual long-term in nature.
These contracts can be complex or unexpected trends to check inclusion of all relevant contracts in managements and incorporate penalty and key performance assessment.
Our sampling of contracts focused our testing on higher risk and larger indicator KPI clauses in the event of noncontracts and enabled us to form an independent view as to whether managements compliance.
The Group is therefore required to make process had identified all onerous and at-risk contracts.
operational and financial assumptions to estimate future losses over periods that can extend beyond For each contract in our sample, we obtained and read the key contractual terms and 20years.
tested that the revenue recognised in the period was in accordance with the contractual terms and was supported by evidence of service delivery.
We read and understood Variability of contract penalties, underlying delivery the contract penalty clauses and evaluated the completeness of penalties through costs and customer and subcontractor claims or discussions with contract managers and reading minutes of meetings between G4S and disputes can put additional pressure on margins and the customer, and customer correspondence.
on future contract profitability, giving rise to onerous contract provisions.
We assessed each of the key assumptions used in managements forecasts to identify and quantify onerous contract provisions.
Where possible, we obtained third party The prediction of future events over extended periods evidence to corroborate managements assumptions and assessed the appropriateness contains inherent risk and the outcome of customer of the Groups forecasts based on past performance.
The Groups policy is to include and sub-contractor claims is uncertain and involves a the benefits of performance improvement plans only where there is evidence of high degree of management judgment.
We critically challenged these benefits based on observable The Groups onerous contract provisions at 31 benefits achieved to date and the extent to which these plans are within the Groups December 2018 are 51m 2017: 62m and the net direct control.
income statement charge for onerous contracts in We assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate used to present value the 2018 amounts to 6m 2017: 22m.
obligation and checked that the rate appropriately reflected the risk in the underlying cash flows.
We also assessed the recoverability of dedicated contract assets by assessing the level of impairment recorded where the contract was identified as onerous.
Having examined managements analysis, including accounting papers prepared to support key contract judgments and onerous contract provisions, our procedures focused on the Facilities Management and Care & Justice Services businesses in the UK and specifically on the Birmingham prison contract, the COMPASS contract and on a legacy PFI contract which is long-term in nature.
Each of these contracts are sensitive to changes in assumptions and have given rise to changes in provisioning levels at year-end.
For these contracts, we performed our own independent sensitivity analysis and we have undertaken additional analysis on key assumptions to which managements provisioning judgments are more sensitive.
We also held discussions with in-house legal counsel and read appropriate documentation to evaluate contractual claims and disputes with customers and subcontractors.
We obtained and evaluated evidence to support decisions and rationale for provisions held or the decision not to record provisions, including correspondence with counterparties and external legal counsel.
We also considered external information sources to assess and evaluate the alternate possible scenarios.
We considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
However, we noted that the assumptions and judgments that are required to formulate the provisions mean that the range of possibleoutcomes is broad.
We are satisfied with the Groups related disclosures of these onerous contracts in light of the underlying assumptions and accounting judgments made.
134 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill impairment Refer to Audit Committee report on page 98 and We have reviewed managements reassessment of CGUs and the associated tonote 18 of the Group financial statements.
reallocation of goodwill to ensure that this has been performed on a reasonable basis.
The Group has 1.9bn of goodwill at 31 December We assessed the mathematical accuracy of managements cash flow model and agreed 2018 2017: 1.9bn.
No impairment charge has the underlying forecasts to board approved budgets and assessed how these budgets been recorded in 2018 2017: nil.
We critically assessed managements forecast by comparing forecast determines the recoverable amount of a cash growth to actual growth, applying sensitivities to future cash flows and assessing long generating unit CGU as the higher of value term growth assumptions and to IMF projections.
in use VIU or fair value less cost of disposal We considered the reliability of managements forecasting for revenue, profit and cash FVLCD.
Following the Groups organisational conversion by comparing budgeted results to actual performance over a period of change, including changes to the Groups reportable three years.
Where we identified significant shortfalls against budget in prior years, this segments, management has reassessed and expanded informed our determination of sensitivities to apply as we formed our independent view the number of the Groups CGUs, and revised the about reasonable downside scenarios.
allocation of goodwill between CGUs.
With the support of our valuations experts, we assessed the long-term growth rates and The carrying value of goodwill is contingent on future discount rates applied by management to third party information and confirmed whether cash flows and there is risk if these cash flows do not they fell within a reasonable range of external market data.
Where they didnot, we meet the Groups expectations that the assets will be applied our independent view of a more appropriate rate to managements forecast.
The impairment reviews performed by the Where the recoverable amount has been assessed with reference to a valuation Group contain a number of significant judgments and multiple, we assessed the appropriateness of the multiple by comparison to recent estimates including revenue growth, profit margins, business disposals and to other third party information, with the support of our cash conversion and long-term growth and discount valuations experts.
Changes in these assumptions can have a For those CGUs with low headroom, we performed our own sensitivity analysis to significant impact on the headroom available in the understand the impact of changes in the assumptions on the available headroom.
The recoverable amounts of a number of CGUs including Brazil Secure Solutions, South Africa Cash Solutions and UK Cash Solutions were found to be sensitive to reasonably possible changes in assumptions and we satisfied ourselves that this risk was appropriately highlighted in the disclosures in note 18.
As a result of our work, we determined that it was appropriate that no impairment charge was recognised in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole and that adequate disclosure has been made.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 135 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF G4S PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets Refer to Audit Committee report on page 98 and to With the assistance of our local and international tax specialists, we evaluated and notes 13 and 33 of the Group financial statements.
challenged managements judgments in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and is subject to a range of tax In understanding and evaluating managements judgments, we considered the status of risks during the normal course of business including recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries, judgmental positions taken in tax transaction related tax matters and transfer pricing returns and current year estimates and developments in the tax environment.
Where appropriate, we also read relevant documentation to understand the legal Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the positions reached.
From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning Group establishes provisions based on managements to be acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
judgment of the probable amount of the future liability.
However, we noted that the assumptions and judgments that are required to formulate At 31 December 2018, the Group has recognised the provisions mean that there is a broad range of possible outcomes.
We are satisfied provisions of 25m related to uncertain taxpositions that these judgments are adequately disclosed in note 13.
In respect of the recoverability of deferred tax assets, we evaluated managements In addition, the Group has recognised 248m of assessment of how these assets will be realised and whether there will be sufficient deferred tax assets at 31 December 2018 2017: taxable profits in future periods to support their recognition.
The recognition of deferred tax assets We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts and the process by which they involves judgment by management regarding the were prepared, ensuring consistency of cash flows with those used for the purpose likelihood of the realisation of these assets.
The of goodwill impairment testing.
Based on our procedures, future cash flow forecasts expectation that these assets will be realised is supported the recoverability of the deferred tax assets recognised.
dependent on a number of factors, including whether there will be sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support utilisation of these assets.
136 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Compliance with payroll laws and regulations Refer to Audit Committee report on page 98 and to We met with the directors, management and in-house legal counsel and obtained note 32 of the Group financial statements.
correspondence from the Groups external legal advisors to assess the probable outcomes in relation to ongoing claims and exposures.
The Group employs 546,000 employees across six continents.
There are a number of on-going employee We evaluated and challenged managements judgments in order to assess the adequacy and regulatory claims in relation to the interpretation of the Groups provisions and disclosures, including the specific class action settlement in and potential risks relative to the application of local the year.
In understanding and evaluating managements judgments, we considered the payroll laws and regulations in a number of countries.
status and basis of employee and regulatory claims, settlement history and the views of Interpreting and complying with payroll laws and internal and external legal counsel regarding the interpretation and application of local regulations is complex.
There is inherent judgment payroll laws and regulations.
Where appropriate, we also read relevant documentation associated both with assessing and quantifying and correspondence to understand the legal positions reached.
probable outcomes in relation to ongoing claims and From the evidence obtained, we are satisfied with the Groups provisioning decisions at with determining any exposure and the need for 31 December 2018 in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole provision in areas where legal requirements are open and with the adequacy of the contingent liability disclosures given the status, materiality to interpretation.
In addition, possible outcomes need and likely outcome of employee and regulatory claims and exposures in countries and to be considered for disclosure as contingent liabilities.
areas where legal requirements are open to interpretation.
Unexpected adverse outcomes could materially impact the Groups financial performance and position.
The net income statement charge for the California class action settlement in 2018 amounts to 100m 2017: nil.
Income statement presentation Refer to Audit Committee report on page 98 and to We substantiated the nature and quantum of individual items to appropriate note 3 b of the Group financial statements.
The Group has historically reported specific and We considered whether the designation of individual items as specific was consistent other items including restructuring costs on the with the Groups accountingpolicy and treatment in prior years.
Furthermore, we face of the income statement.
Consistent with the considered whether amounts included as specific items related to current year trading Groups definition of profit before interest, tax and and might be more appropriately reflected in the underlying results.
amortisation Adjusted PBITA, the following items We considered whether the Group has taken a balanced approach to this area, have continued to be disclosed separately on the face checking that exceptional one-offitems of income are treated consistently with one-off of the income statement in 2018: net specific items items of cost.
22m 2017: 34m : restructuring costs 31m 2017: We tested managements process for identifying and tracking the current year reversal 20m and net profit loss on disposal and closure of any prior year specificitems, or utilisation of or adjustment to related provisions, of subsidiaries 16m 2017: 74m.
In addition, toidentify whether these have been appropriately presented in the current year the following items have been disclosed on the face incomestatement.
of the income statement in 2018: California class Based on our procedures, we were satisfied that the treatment and classification of action settlement 100m 2017: nil and guaranteed these items were  and with the Groups policies.
The treatment of specific and other separately disclosed items is explained in the Group accounting policy in note 3 b.
We focused on this area because the classification of items as specific or separate disclosure of items of income or expenditure on the face of the income statement requires judgment and because certain of these items are excluded from the calculation of elements of executive remuneration in line with the Groups remuneration policy.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is important to ensure comparability of year-on-year reporting in the Annual Report.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the parent company.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 137 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF G4S PLC CONTINUED How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is organised into four Secure Solutions reportable segments and one Global Cash Solutions reportable segment which in 2018 for the purposes of our audit were arranged into five regions.
Corporate head office entities are managed at a Group level.
Each region regional component is an aggregation of a number of country-based components along with the Groups interests in joint ventures together the country components.
Each region has a separate management team which coordinates the businesses within that region.
The Groups accounting processes are structured around a local finance function in each of the country components.
In addition, finance shared service centres in the UK, North America and India support certain of the Groups country-based components.
The country components report to the regions and to the Group through an integrated consolidation system.
In performing our audit, we determined that we needed to conduct audit work over the complete financial information of each of the regional components.
We therefore deployed regional component audit teams in each of the five regions to lead our interactions with regional management, to coordinate the audit work performed on country components and to audit and report on the aggregated financial information of that region.
In addition to the five regional components, specific audit procedures over central functions, the Group consolidation, head office entities and areas of judgment including taxation, goodwill and intangible assets impairment, treasury, postretirement benefits and disposals were directly led by the Group audit team.
Recognising that not every country component in each regional component is included in our Group audit scope, we considered as part of our Group audit oversight responsibility what audit coverage had been obtained in aggregate by our regional component teams by reference to country components at which audit work had been undertaken.
Beneath the regional component layer, the Group financial statements are an aggregation of approximately 600 reporting units, each of which is considered to be a country component.
We identified 56 country component units that, in our view, required a full scope audit due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over significant balances and transactions were performed at a further seven country component units to give appropriate coverage of all material balances.
Where the work was performed by regional and country component audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those components.
As a result, all five regions were visited by senior members of the Group audit team as a supplement to the regular dialogue between our Group and regional teams and the issuance of instructions to direct their work.
Regional teams visited a further two country components performing oversight procedures under our instruction.
For those components in Group audit scope where a site visit was not undertaken, our Group and our regional component audit teams involvement included regular dialogue with our country component teams, review of component auditor work papers and participation in certain component audit clearance meetings for the more significant country components.
Taken together, the components and functions where we performed either full scope audit work or specified audit procedures on selected financial statement line items accounted for 72% of consolidated revenue and 73% of consolidated profit before tax.
This was before considering the contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit work at the regional and Group levels, including disaggregated analytical review procedures and our evaluation of entity level controls, which covered a significant portion of the Groups smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in our Group audit scope.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 138 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Group financial statements Parent company financial statements 17 million 2017: 20 million.
Overall materiality 5% of adjusted profit before tax, 1% of net assets.
How we determined it being profit before tax after adding back certain items that are separately reported on the face of the consolidated income statement including specific and other one-off items, restructuring costs and profit loss on disposal.
The Groups principal measure of The parent company holds the Groups Rationale for benchmark earnings is profit before interest, tax investments and performs treasury applied and amortisation adjusted for a number functions on behalf of the Group.
of items of income and expenditure Therefore, the entity is not in itself Adjusted PBITA.
The strength of the uses this measure as it believes that it balance sheet is the key measure of reflects the underlying performance of financial health that is important to the Group.
We took this measure into shareholders since the primary concern account in determining our materiality, for the parent company is the payment except that we did not adjust profit of dividends and servicing of debt.
before tax to add back amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets and finance income and expense as in our view these are recurring items which donot introduce volatility to the Groups earnings.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of overall materiality allocated to each regional component was between 3m and 15m.
Each region allocated materiality to sub-components lower than these amounts.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1m Group audit 2017: 1m and 0.7m parent company audit 2017: 0.8m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial draw attention to.
statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to However, because not all future events adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial or conditions can be predicted, this statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties statement is not a guarantee as to to the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going the Groups and parent companys concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of ability to continue as a going concern.
approval of the financial statements.
For example, the terms on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications on the companys trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 139 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF G4S PLC CONTINUED REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Ouropinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
"Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority ""FCA"" require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated."
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement in the corporate governance report about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement in the corporate governance report with respect to the parent companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
CA06 140 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 88 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 89 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 131, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 98 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 141 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF G4S PLC CONTINUED RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 131, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: frc.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
142 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 4 June 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is four years, covering the years ended 31 December 2015 to 31December 2018.
Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 12 March 2019 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 143
