"Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Funding Circle Holdings plc Report on the audit of the Company financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Funding Circle Holdings plcs Company financial statements the financial statements : - give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of its cash flows for the year thenended: - have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ""IFRSs"" as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and - have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006."
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2018: the Company statement of changes in equity: and the Company statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
Webelieve that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for ouropinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group and its subsidiaries in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Overview - Overall materiality: 5.7 million 2017: 2.8 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Materiality - We have audited the complete financial information of the Company.
Audit scope - We have no key audit matters to report.
Key audit matters The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the company and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to the Listing Rules, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to the posting of inappropriate journals.
Audit procedures performed by the engagement team included review of the Annual Report and Accounts with consideration to the Listing Rules and identifying and testing journal entries and .
127 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Funding Circle Holdings plc Report on the audit of the Company financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud continued There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether ornot due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as awhole, taking into account the structure of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which it operates.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall materiality 5.7 million 2017: 2.8 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Rationale for We consider total assets to be the most appropriate benchmark to apply on the basis that the Company benchmark applied is a non-trading investment company that holds investment in the Groups trading businesses.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 280,000 2017: 140,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
ordraw attention to in respect of the Directors statement However, because not all future events or conditions can inthefinancial statements about whether the Directors bepredicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the considered itappropriate to adopt the going concern basis Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
For ofaccounting inpreparing the financial statements and the example, the terms on which the United Kingdom may Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a tooccur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to periodof at least twelvemonths from the date of approval evaluate all of the potential implications on the Companys ofthefinancial statements.
trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
going concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
128 Funding Circle Holdings plc Financial statements Report on the audit of the Company financial statements continued Reporting on other information continued With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
"Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 ""CA06"", ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority ""FCA"" require us also to report certain opinions andmatters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated."
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 46 to 83 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 46 to 83 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Company and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Company We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 39 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 44 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors on page 61 that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company obtained in the course of performing our audit: The section of the Annual Report on page 60 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Funding Circle Holdings plc Report on the audit of the Company financial statements continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements set out on page 83, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine isnecessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud orerror.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance isa high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually orin the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: - we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or - adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or - certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or - the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 4 August 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is four years, covering the years ended 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2018.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Funding Circle Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Brian Henderson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 7 March 2019 130 Funding Circle Holdings plc
