"Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Funding Circle Holdings plc Report on the audit of the Group financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Funding Circle Holdings plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : - give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: - have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ""IFRSs"" as adopted by the European Union: and - have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation."
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018: the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for ouropinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group.
Other than those disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Overview - Overall Group materiality: 2.2 million 2017: 945,000, based on 5% of loss before tax adjusted for exceptional costs in respect of the IPO.
We considered it appropriate to reduce materiality through exclusion of IPO costs from our calculation given that these are material and one-off in nature.
Materiality - We have changed the benchmark from our 2017 audit, for which materiality was based on 1% of revenues.
We consider loss before tax adjusted for exceptional costs in respect of the IPO to be the most appropriate benchmark used in assessing the performance of the Group now that the business is listed.
- Our audit included full scope audits of the UK and US components which Audit scope accounted for approximately 92% of the Groups revenues and 71% of the Groups loss before tax adjusted for exceptional costs in respect of the IPO.
- We performed specified procedures in respect of the Central Europe CE component and at a Group level which together with the full scope audits accounted for 100% of revenues and approximately 78% of the Groups loss before tax adjusted for exceptional costs in respect of the IPO.
Key audit matters - Valuation of the expected credit loss provision.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
84 Funding Circle Holdings plc Financial statements Report on the audit of the Group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to the Groups provision of regulated products and services under its Financial Conduct Authority FCA licence, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
Wealso considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to the posting of inappropriate journals and the application of management bias in areas of estimation or judgement.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response tosuch risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors included: - reading the Groups FCA authorisations and permissions and verifying that regulatory submissions are up to date: - conducting inquiries of management and those charged with governance including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud: - assessment of matters reported on the Groups whistleblowing helpline and the results of managements investigations ofsuch matters: - identifying and testing journal entries and period-end adjustments: - incorporated unpredictability into our testing: and - challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in its accounting estimates, in particular in relation to the expected credit loss provision and goodwill impairment assessments.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether ornot due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of the expected credit loss provision - We assessed the appropriateness of the methodology applied to determine the expected credit loss provision Refer to note 1 Accounting policy Financial instruments : withreference to the requirements of IFRS 9. andnote 17 Provisions In certain circumstances, the Group has entered into - Given application from 1 January 2018, we tested the arrangements with institutional investors providing financial opening credit loss provision and assessed the guarantees whereby the Group is required to make payments appropriateness of the transitional disclosures.
when the underlying borrower fails to meet its obligation under - We tested the mathematical accuracy of the models and the loan contract.
corroborated the underlying data i. e. key terms of the loan With the introduction of IFRS 9 from 1 January 2018, a number book information including the loan amount and dates of of additional judgements and assumptions are introduced and maturity, scheduled repayment and the latest repayment reflected in the financial statements, giving rise to a change in date back to supporting documentation.
the basis on which the credit risk for such arrangements is - We have tested historical defaults on the loan book where determined and correspondingly the valuation.
financial guarantees are in place and, where relevant, across The valuation of the expected credit loss requires estimation, a similar portfolio of loans under management as this has and the calculation has a number of inputs that consider past the greatest impact on estimations of the expected credit loss.
experience as well as forward-looking information.
- We have compared the historical default rates experienced The key elements of estimation within the expected credit loss to the loss rate applied within the credit loss provision models calculation that have the greatest impact on the provision are and found them to be in agreement.
borrower defaults and historical loss trends.
- We performed sensitivity analysis and determined the range of credit loss rates within which no material misstatement would result to be reasonable.
85 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Funding Circle Holdings plc Report on the audit of the Group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Key audit matters continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment of Goodwill Our audit procedures comprised the following: Refer to Report of the Audit Committee Significant issues - tested the methodology built into the model produced by considered in relation to the financial statements: note 2 management to determine whether the Directors impairment Accounting policy : and note 11 Goodwill.
assessment addressed the requirements of the financial The Group holds goodwill in respect of the previous reporting framework, and reperformed the calculations: acquisitions of the Central Europe 30.6 million and - evaluated the accuracy of prior years forecasts in light of past theUS 11.7 million businesses.
performance and actual results achieved to assess the quality IAS 36 Impairment of Assets requires that goodwill is subject and reliability of managements forecasts for each CGU: to an impairment review at least annually, or more frequently - challenged management over the reasonableness ofthekey when there is evidence of a trigger event.
Specific disclosures assumptions inherent in the model: in respect of the impairment assessment are also required.
- agreed information, in particular forecast financial The Directors annual impairment assessment concluded information, to budgets and forecasts approved by thatthere was headroom over the varying value.
The key seniormanagement: and assumptions in this assessment included the forecast revenue growth, the discount rate and the perpetuity growth rate.
- assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate assumptions by comparing them with that of comparable We have focused on this area as the preparation of these businesses.
assessments involves a significant degree of estimation.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts, being: - the revenue growth rate for the first five years: - the perpetuity growth rate: and - the discount rate.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for thegoodwill to be impaired for the CGU, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
We did not identify any issues with managements key assumptions based on our evaluation of supporting evidence, together with managements and our own sensitivity analysis performed.
We also considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 11 to the financial statements.
We found that the disclosures appropriately describe the key areas of estimation and sensitivities in the Directors assessment.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which it operates.
86 Funding Circle Holdings plc Financial statements Report on the audit of the Group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extentof our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect ofmisstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 2.2 million 2017: 945,000.
How we determined it 2018: 5% of loss before tax adjusted for exceptional costs in respect of the IPO.
Rationale for We determined materiality by applying 5% to consolidated loss before tax excluding exceptional benchmark applied costs incurred entirely in respect of the IPO.
This represents a change in the benchmark from 2017 for which the benchmark used was revenue and materiality calculated applying 1% to consolidated revenues.
We believe that underlying loss before tax is the most appropriate measure as it eliminates any disproportionate effects of the one-off in nature IPO-related costs.
We highlight that this gives rise to a lower materiality than would be derived if using the statutory measure of loss before tax.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 880,000 and 1,500,000.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 110,000 2017: 47,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention We have nothing material to add or to draw to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements about attention to.
whether the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern However, because not all future events or basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors conditions can be predicted, this statement is identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to asa going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of continue as a going concern.
For example, approval of the financial statements.
the terms on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications on the Groups trade, customers, suppliers and thewider economy.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to going concern We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
87 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Funding Circle Holdings plc Report on the audit of the Group financial statements continued Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
"Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 ""CA06"", ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority ""FCA"" require us also to report certain opinions andmatters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated."
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared inaccordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 46 to 83 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 46 to 83 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency orliquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: - The Directors confirmation on page 39 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
- The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
- The Directors explanation on page 44 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as towhether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities asthey fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications orassumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and itsenvironment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules 88 Funding Circle Holdings plc Financial statements Report on the audit of the Group financial statements continued Reporting on other information continued Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: - the statement given by the Directors on page 61, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group obtained in the course of performing our audit: - the section of the Annual Report on page 60 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or - the Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements set out on page 83, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless theDirectors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance isa high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually orin the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: - we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or - certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 4 August 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is four years, covering the years ended 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2018.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Funding Circle Holdings plc for the year ended 31December 2018 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Brian Henderson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 7 March 2019 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
