Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 77 Financial Statements 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of Galliford Try plc In addition, we performed work over specific balances in other Group Report on the audit of the financial statements entities, which in our view, required an audit of such balances, either due Opinion to their size or their risk characteristics.
In our opinion, Galliford Try plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements : Key Audit Matters Fraud in revenue recognition.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2018 and of the Groups profit and the Linden Homes developments may not be appropriately valued.
Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: Construction contracts, work in progress and provisioning may not have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial be appropriately valued.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the The scope of our audit Parent Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, which comprise: We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework the Group and Parent Company balance sheets as at 30 June 2018: applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to comprehensive income, the Group and Parent Company statements of applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit cash flows, and the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in Basis for opinion the Group and Parent Company financial statements, including, but not We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on limited to, Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation and Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under UK tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that review of correspondence with legal advisers, enquiries of management the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to and in-house legal counsel and review of internal audit reports in so far provide a basis for our opinion.
as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations Independence in the audit procedures described above and the further removed We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to would become aware of it.
listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit management override of internal controls, including testing journals and services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that the Group or the Parent Company.
represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Other than those disclosed in note 6 to the financial statements, Key audit matters we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional Company in the period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018. judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant Our audit approach assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud Overview identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest affect Materiality on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: Overall Group materiality: 9,435,000 2017: 7,380,000, based on and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, Overall Parent Company materiality: 11,453,000 2017: 7,380,000, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements based on 1% of total assets.
as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks Audit Scope identified by our audit.
The Group is structured in six principal segments, being Linden Homes, Partnerships & Regeneration, Building, Infrastructure, PPP Investments and Central Costs, all of which include multiple legal entities.
Within the Groups six segments, we determined that the following legal entities required an audit of their complete financial information: Linden Limited, Galliford Try Building Limited, Galliford Try Infrastructure Limited, Galliford Try Partnerships Limited and Galliford Try plc.
78 Galliford Try plc Independent auditors report continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Fraud in revenue recognition Revenue from construction contracts is recognised based For construction revenue, we identified and assessed the appropriateness of key upon managements assessment of the value of works carried assumptions adopted in the estimation of significant construction contract projects, out considering performance against the programme of by validating stage-of-completion and costs to completion on significant projects works, calculation of work in progress, detailed evaluation of using surveyors latest valuations.
the costs incurred and comparison to external certification We agreed revenue recognised on a sample of major projects to supporting of the work performed.
Profit is not recognised until the documentation such as customer contracts, certifications and signed variations.
outcome of the contract is reasonably certain.
Construction contract accounting is inherently complex and we focused on We tested the timing of construction contract revenue recognition, taking into this area because there is estimation in respect of forecast account contractual obligations, the percentage of the contract completed, revenue and costs to complete on projects and these third-party certifications and the timing of cash receipts.
estimates could be manipulated by management.
For housebuilding revenue, we tested a sample of sales by examining legal completion Housebuilding revenue recognition is based on legal documents as well as testing the cut-off of revenue around the year-end.
completion for private house sales and unconditional We performed data analysis to identify potentially unusual journal entries impacting exchange of contracts for land sales.
revenue and performed testing on those items.
Additionally, there is a risk the revenue could be manipulated We found no material misstatements from our testing.
Refer to note 1 on pages 87-92 of the Annual Report.
Linden Homes developments may not be appropriately valued The valuation of developments is dependent upon the We identified and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls around the correct estimation and allocation of costs on Linden Homes purchase and payable cycle including review and approval of cost allocations to sites.
Developments are carried at the lower of cost and net specific projects, and review of performance by projects including costs to date and realisable value.
A sign of impairment arises if the allocated variation of cost to complete.
costs of land and construction are likely to exceed the We recalculated, for a sample of sites, the recognition of costs and remaining work in expected selling price of an individual unit.
progress balance to ensure they had been appropriately updated for costs incurred Older or slower-moving developments can also be an and expected costs to complete.
We performed an analysis of site margins for all major sites to identify those with Refer to note 1 on pages 87-92 of the Annual Report.
low or eroding margins, for example due to specific issues or underperformance.
We discussed the identified sites with management, including the consideration of the level of provisions held against these sites and evaluated the explanations given against other external evidence to assess the carrying value of inventory.
We agreed a sample of costs incurred on sites, including common costs, to supporting documentation.
We evaluated the ageing of developments and assessed the impairment risk by considering overall site margins and fluctuations year on year, review of stock units that were significantly aged and reviewing post year end reservations for these sites.
We found no material misstatements from our testing.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 79 Financial Statements 2018 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Construction contracts, work in progress and provisioning may not be appropriately valued The valuation of amounts recoverable on construction We assessed the evidence provided by management regarding recovery of the contracts is dependent on judgments around stage of un-agreed variations to contract price on projects.
This included external expert and completion and remaining costs to complete, as well as the legal advice and correspondence from clients, subcontractors and insurers.
In a number of the Groups projects considered the adequacy of provisions held based on understanding of the contracts, there are assumptions within either revenue or cost of sales meetings with in-house counsel and review of key project correspondence.
regarding recovery of amounts contractually due from We identified and assessed a sample of key assumptions adopted in estimation of clients, designers, subcontractors or insurers, and amounts significant projects, particularly around stage of completion, costs to complete and recoverable on construction contracts can include variations provisions on loss-making contracts through our review of contract review meetings and claims which are not yet certified or formally agreed, minutes, reading correspondence with the customer and subcontractors, and but where the outcome is capable of being reliably measured obtaining audit evidence on client subcontractor disputes and insurance claims.
and there is a reasonable certainty of recovery.
These assumptions impact revenue recognised on these contracts, We assessed the reliability of managements estimates by reviewing the fluctuations as well as amounts recoverable on construction contracts, in budgeted end of life margin between 30 June 2018 and 30 June 2017. cost of sales and trade and other payables balances.
We tested whether valid contractual agreements, supplemental agreements Provisions are recorded by the Group where risk of recovery and agreed variations were in place to support managements position on a is considered significant.
There is a risk these provisions sample of contracts.
In respect of managements assumptions regarding recovery of claims on AWPR The Groups loss provisions in respect of a major joint we obtained evidence of adjudication decisions, reviewed the basis of the claim venture road project, the Aberdeen Western Peripheral calculation and challenged the level or provisioning assumed based on discussions Road AWPR, in corporate assumptions of recovery of with Groups external quantum experts and legal counsel as to the assumed levels claims against the client and other Parties which are yet of recovery built into the loss provision calculation.
In respect of the disputed work in progress balance we obtained details of the Within the Groups Infrastructure business there is a material unagreed variations and the adjudication results supporting the Groups entitlement work in progress balance of circa 30m in respect of three to recovery.
The costs associated with these projects have been significantly impacted by scope changes We found no material misstatements from our testing.
and the client is currently disputing the Groups valuation of the work in progress.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Parent Company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level, We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements statements as a whole.
as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Materiality Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
industry in which they operate.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together The Group is structured in six principal segments, being Linden Homes, with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our Partnerships & Regeneration, Building, Infrastructure, PPP Investments audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the and Central Costs all of which include multiple legal entities.
The Group individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating financial statements are a consolidation of these six segments in total.
the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the The segmental reporting also reflects the Groups management and financial statements as a whole.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at these reporting units.
Within the Groups six reporting units, we identified the following legal entities which in our view, required an audit of their entire financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics: Linden Limited, Galliford Try Building Limited, Galliford Try Infrastructure Limited, Galliford Try Partnerships Limited and Galliford Try plc.
In addition, we performed work over specific balances in other Group entities, which in our view, required an audit of such balances, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
Taken together, the legal entities in scope accounted for 94% of Group revenue and 84% of Group profit before tax.
80 Galliford Try plc Independent auditors report continued Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality 9,435,000 2017: 7,380,000.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we applied this Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark as a generally accepted auditing benchmark as a generally accepted auditing practice applicable for a trading group of practice applicable for a non-trading holding companies.
Exceptional items were excluded entity.
from the profit before tax amount used for the calculation of overall materiality as they relate to a small number of items which were tested separately.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of them misstatements identified during our audit above 360,000 materiality allocated across components was between 2,000,000 and Group audit 2017: 369,000 and 360,000 Parent Company audit 6,800,000.
2017: 369,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial ability to continue as a going concern.
statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information Strategic Report and Directors Report The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Report for the year ended 30 June 2018 is consistent with the financial Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, requirements.
CA06 except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent of assurance thereon.
Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the and Directors Report.
CA06 other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements The directors assessment of the prospects of the or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to solvency or liquidity of the Group conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material The directors confirmation on page 22 of the Annual Report that they misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and 2006 have been included.
explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 81 Financial Statements 2018 The directors explanation on page 23 of the Annual Report as to how Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with including any related disclosures drawing attention to any ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal financial statements.
risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in www.
This description forms alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance part of our auditors report.
Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are Use of this report consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of audit.
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other Other Code Provisions purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The statement given by the directors, on page 76, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, Other required reporting and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business Companies Act 2006 exception reporting model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing in our opinion: our audit.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require The section of the Annual Report on page 58 describing the work for our audit: or of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received The directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance from branches not visited by us: or with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review not made: or by the auditors.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be agreement with the accounting records and returns.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
CA06 Appointment Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements appointed by the members on 27 October 2000 to audit the financial As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set statements for the year ended 30 June 2001 and subsequent financial out on page 76, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 18 years, financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for covering the years ended 30 June 2001 to 30 June 2018. being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also Jonathan Hook Senior Statutory Auditor responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to for and on behalf of  LLP enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
London In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for 12 September 2018 assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
