INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Games Workshop Group PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Games Workshop Group PLCs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 3 June 2018 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the annual report, which comprise: the consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 3 June 2018: the consolidated income statement and statements of comprehensive income, the consolidated and Company cash flow statements, and the consolidated and Company statements of changes in total equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the audit committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 8 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 29 May 2017 to 3 June 2018.
Our audit approach Context In the current year, the sales volumes of the Group have increased resulting in an increase in profit before tax year on year.
The Group has seen growth from all revenue streams as well as increased global sales.
These changes to the Group have impacted the audit as set out below with increased levels of materiality in the current year.
The increased materiality has not had an impact upon the number of reporting units in scope for the purposes of the Group audit and the coverage on the key income statement balances has not been impacted.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 3,727,000 2017: 1,900,000, based on 5% of consolidated profit before tax.
Overall Company materiality: 384,000 2017: 397,000, based on 1% of total assets.
Audit scope Full scope audits, all conducted by the group engagement team, were performed on five separate reporting units.
The reporting units audited included the four largest trading units in the Group.
The reporting units audited accounted for 80% of consolidated revenues and 89% of consolidated profit before tax.
Areas of focus Inventory valuation.
Capitalisation of product development costs.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
34 Games Workshop Group PLC The scope of our audit continued We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, and UK tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with the regulators, enquiries of management, enquiries of internal legal team, and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Inventory valuation We tested that the Group provisioning policy is in accordance with Refer to page 19 audit committee report, page 46 Key assumptions IFRSs as adopted by the EU and has been consistently applied.
We and estimates and page 55 notes.
understood and assessed manual overrides to the provision The Group held inventory of 20.2 million as at 3 June 2018.
The calculation to determine whether these adjustments were directors determine the provision for inventory by making appropriate.
No inappropriate adjustments were identified.
assumptions about future sales by product and applying those to the We obtained an understanding of managements process for current inventory holding.
preparing future stock sales forecasts, including how these were Inventory has increased year on year due to the performance of the challenged and stress-tested by the directors.
We tested the integrity business requiring higher levels of stock to be held for the operation of the underlying calculations and assessed the assumptions over of the business.
future sales forecasts by testing via recalculation the accuracy of The Group operates in a retail market where new product releases managements historic sales forecasts compared to actual out-turn.
There is a risk that inventories held will not be sold and We noted no material differences between historic forecasts and there is inherent judgement in the levels of sales the directors actual out-turn and were therefore satisfied that the directors forecast when assessing realisable value.
Over the last four years the forecasting process was reasonable.
Group has on average written off 1.2 million of inventory per We obtained further evidence over the valuation of the provision by annum.
comparing a sample of product lines to post year end sales and In order to assess the level of provision required against inventory, assessing whether, post year-end sales performance suggested that the directors assess forecast sales levels by product and in certain additional provisions may be required.
This also provided us with situations this calculation is subject to manual override to reflect the evidence over the accuracy of the directors sales forecasts used in specific circumstances of certain inventory lines.
No material errors were noted.
We focused on this area because of the subjectivity around forecasting future sales performance of newly launched products, and because of the judgement that exists around the manual adjustments to the calculation.
Capitalisation of product development costs We assessed whether the costs capitalised relating to product Refer to page 19 audit committee report, page 45 Key assumptions development met the criteria set within IAS 38 noting no exceptions.
and estimates and page 52 notes.
We agreed a sample of capitalised product development costs to The Group incurred 5.4 million of capitalised product development source documentation, including invoices and timesheets, and costs during the year to 3 June 2018, relating to products the Group determined that they had been allocated to the correct project.
develops to sell through its various channels.
The net book value of We obtained and inspected the latest forecasts in respect of projects such capitalised costs as at 3 June 2018 was 8.2 million.
to assess recoverability of the capitalised costs.
In order to assess the We focused on this area due to the inherent level of judgement accuracy of the future sales forecasts, we compared actual 2017 18 around whether costs capitalised meet the recognition criteria of IAS sales to forecasts made in previous years and evaluated the historical 38 Intangible assets IAS 38, a determination that involves accuracy of the directors estimates.
We also compared performance management estimation in particular as regards to whether they are against forecasts of sales made following the year end.
Based on this specific to projects which are expected to generate future cash assessment, we found the directors forecasts to be consistent with inflows.
the actual historical outturn of sales and the levels of sales made post Further, there is a risk that capitalised costs will not be supported by year end.
the future cash inflows generated from product sales.
We applied sensitivity analysis to the forecasts to understand the shortfall in revenues that would be required to cause a material impairment in the carrying value of capitalised costs.
We considered the shortfall required to cause a material impairment unlikely given the historical accuracy of the directors forecasting.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
35 Games Workshop Group PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is a vertically integrated business, as shown in note 3 to the financial statements.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of a number of reporting units, comprising the Groups sales, manufacturing and distribution businesses and centralised functions, and a number of non-trading Group entities.
Accordingly, of the Groups reporting units, we identified five being the Company and four trading entities that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
These entities accounted for 80% of consolidated revenues and 89% of consolidated profit before tax.
The audit of these five reporting units was performed by the Group engagement team.
This, together with additional procedures performed, including analytical procedures and certain tests of details over specific balances and transactions, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 3,727,000 2017: 1,900,000.
How we determined it 5% of consolidated profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark Based on the benchmarks used in the annual report, Due to the nature of the entity, being that of a applied profit before tax is the primary measure used by the holding company which has large investments, total shareholders in assessing the performance of the assets is deemed the most appropriate benchmark.
Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was 2,000,000 to 3,350,000.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 150,000 Group audit 2017: 90,000 and 19,000 Company audit 2017: 20,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect We have nothing material to add or to draw of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the directors attention to.
However, because not all future considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the events or conditions can be predicted, this financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least Groups and Companys ability to continue as twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to going concern in accordance We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
36 Games Workshop Group PLC Reporting on other information continued With respect to the strategic report, directors report and corporate governance report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the strategic report and directors report for the year ended 3 June 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the strategic report and directors report.
CA06 Corporate governance report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the corporate governance report on pages 18 to 21 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the corporate governance report on pages 18 to 21 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 12 of the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 17 of the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 32, that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the annual report on page 19 and 20 describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 32, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
37 Games Workshop Group PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the directors on 17 January 2005 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 29 May 2005 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 14 years, covering the years ended 29 May 2005 to 3 June 2018.
Andrew Lyon Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors East Midlands 30 July 2018 38 Games Workshop Group PLC
