128 GSK Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc Report on the audit of the financial statements We confirm that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Opinion Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent company.
In our opinion: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc the Parent company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair Summary of our audit approach view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for First year audit transaction the year then ended: This is the first year we have been appointed as auditors to the Group.
We undertook a number of transitional procedures to the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in prepare for the audit.
Before we commenced our audit we had to accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards establish our independence of the Group which involved ceasing IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued a number of commercial relationships.
We used the time prior to by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : commencing our audit to meet with key members of management the Parent company financial statements have been properly to gain an understanding of the business, its issues and the prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted environment in which it operates.
Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure We became independent of the Group and commenced our audit Framework: and planning on 4 July 2017.
From this date we attended all Audit & Risk the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Committee meetings, initially in an observer capacity.
We worked the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the alongside the former auditor and reviewed their working papers to Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
gain an understanding of the Groups processes, their audit risk assessment, the controls on which they relied for the purposes of We have audited the financial statements which comprise the: issuing their audit opinion, as well as understanding the evidence Group: they obtained on the key complex or significant judgements which consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018: they made.
consolidated income statement for the year then ended: In September 2017, we held a two day meeting of audit partners consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year and senior staff who would be responsible for undertaking the audits then ended: in the most significant locations in the Group.
The main purpose of this meeting was to outline our central audit approach including the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then use of our data analytics tools, discuss possible significant audit ended: risks and brief our teams on the Groups key processes, systems consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: and and structure.
A subsequent strategic planning meeting was held in September 2018 with the same participants to take into account notes 1 to 46 to the financial statements, which includes the any current period updates that impacted our audit approach.
During these meetings, we also heard directly from Group Parent company: management on the changes impacting the business to inform balance sheet as at 31 December 2018: our audit planning and risk assessment.
statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and Key audit matters notes A to N to the financial statements, which includes the The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: accounting principles and policies.
valuation of acquisition-related liabilities: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the valuation of US Returns and Rebates RAR accruals: preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and valuation of intangible assets: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent valuation of uncertain tax positions, including transfer pricing company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom and updates to the impacts of the US Tax Reform: and Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure IT systems which impact financial reporting.
Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Key audit matters considered by the Groups auditor in the prior Practice.
year were broadly aligned with the items identified above, but also Basis for opinion included consideration of litigations and investigations into the Groups commercial operations, which are less significant in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards current year.
on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors Materiality responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements our report.
was 270 million, which was determined on the basis of a composite benchmarking approach.
This approach considers We are independent of the Group and the Parent company in profit before tax, adjusted profit before tax, revenue and net cash accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our flows from operations.
audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to Risk assessment at group level listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical We applied a top-down risk assessment methodology which responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
considers the enterprise, industry and financial risks in the context of the financial statements 129 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Report on the audit of the financial statements continued As part of this process, we spent time understanding the key The coverage obtained from this strategy is summarised as follows: financial and business processes of the Group and how they are Profit Total Benchmark Revenue before tax assets implemented across the organisation.
We used our audit analytics tools to analyse client data and the flow of business transactions Covered by market - specific procedures 66% 73% 83% to inform our fact-based risk assessment.
Covered by review at Group level 34% 27% 17% Audit scope and execution The residual consists of components or legal entities each with We structured our approach to the audit to reflect how the Group annual revenue turnover less than 1.8% of the total Group revenue.
is organised as well as ensuring our audit was both effective and These entities and components are non-significant components that risk focused.
It can be summarised into the following areas which individually and in the aggregate do not present a reasonable enabled us to obtain the evidence required to form an opinion on possibility of risk of material misstatement.
the Group and Parent company financial statements: Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks Risk assessment and audit planning at a Group level.
and viability statement The central control and common systems throughout most of the Group, enabled us to structure the audit more centrally.
In addition Going concern to appointing partners for each of three businesses, we also had We have reviewed the directors statement in notes 1 and A to the partners coordinate the component and legal entity audits in each financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate country.
These global business partners met regularly with the to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them relevant management to understand strategy and matters which and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups arose throughout the year that could have impacted on the and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least financial reporting.
The regular meetings we had with members 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
of the Internal Audit, the internal Legal Counsel and the Global We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, Ethics & Compliance team allowed us to understand their work, its business model and related risks including where relevant the to review their reports and to enhance our risk assessment.
impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting Audit work performed at global shared service centres.
framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the A significant amount of the Groups operational processes which directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going cover financial reporting are undertaken in shared service centres.
concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions Our central team, which included senior individuals responsible used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for for each of the global processes, coordinated our audit work at future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
the shared service centres in scope for the Group audit, to ensure We are required to state whether we have anything material to add we developed a good understanding of the end-to-end view of or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing the key processes that supported material account balances, Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent classes of transactions and disclosures within the Group financial with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We then evaluated the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting for these processes and We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or considered the implications for the remainder of our audit work.
draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Audit work executed at component and individual Principal risks and viability statement legal entities.
Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering The following components were subject to market-specific audit whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the procedures as well as the assessment of the internal controls over course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation financial reporting: Belgium: Canada: France: Germany: Italy: of the directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability Japan: Spain: Switzerland: United Kingdom and United States.
to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we The Group audit team was in active dialogue throughout the year have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: with the component audit teams responsible for the audit work the disclosures on pages 34 to 36 that describe the principal under the direction and supervision of the Group audit team.
This risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: included determining whether the work was planned and performed in accordance with the overall Group audit strategy the directors confirmation on page 87 that they have carried out and the requirements of our Group audit instructions to the a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, components.
As part of supervising the work of the components, including those that would threaten its business model, future the Group audit team visited all the component countries, as well performance, solvency or liquidity: or as locations of all shared service centre audits.
the directors explanation on page 44 as to how they have Audit procedures undertaken at a Group level and on assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have the Parent company.
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and In addition to the above, we also performed audit work at Group their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation and on the Parent company financial statements, including but not that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its limited to the consolidation of the Groups results, the preparation liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, of the financial statements, certain disclosures within the Directors including any related disclosures drawing attention to any remuneration report, litigation provisions and exposures in addition necessary qualifications or assumptions.
to managements entity level and oversight controls relevant to We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating financial reporting.
We also carried out analytical procedures to to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or the remaining components not subject to the market-specific audit draw attention to in respect of these matters.
130 GSK Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors report continued Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Valuation of acquisition-related liabilities Audit procedures performed In recent years the Group has completed a number of significant We performed the following audit procedures where relevant: transactions which resulted in the recognition of material and made enquiries of key individuals from the senior leadership judgemental acquisition-related liabilities.
The most significant team, commercial strategy team and key personnel involved in of these liabilities were: the budgeting and forecasting process, to discuss, challenge ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent consideration liability and evaluate managements evidence to support key inputs ViiV CCL : The Group completed the acquisition of the and assumptions: remaining 50% interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint challenged the business assumptions applied by management venture in 2012.
Upon completion, the Group recognised a in estimating sales forecasts, including benchmarking of sales contingent consideration liability for the fair value of the forecasts to external data.
This included analysis of the results expected future payments to be made to Shionogi.
As at of demand studies conducted by third parties on new drug 31 December 2018, the liability was valued at 5,937 million launches.
We assessed the results of clinical studies and 2017 5,542 million : and the target medicine profile of new drugs to understand their Pfizer put option: The Group granted Pfizer a put option in relative position in the market and to assess any sources of 2009, enabling Pfizer to put its non-controlling interest in contradictory evidence: ViiV Healthcare back to the Group in the future.
As at assessed the historical accuracy of managements forecasts 31 December 2018, the liability was valued at 1,240 million including estimates of the probability of success of pipeline 2017 1,304 million.
products: In the prior year, the acquisition-related liabilities also included the benchmarked sales forecasts against analyst expectations to, Consumer Healthcare joint venture put option.
The liability both assess the estimations made by management and, for represented the present value of the expected redemption price consideration of any contradictory evidence available: of a put option over Novartis non-controlling interest in Consumer assessed the reasonableness of valuation-specific assumptions Healthcare joint venture.
On 3 May 2018, the Consumer used by management, including exchange rates, discount rate, healthcare joint venture put option was fide-recognised following valuation multiples and whether these assumptions were approval by shareholders of the acquisition of Novartis consistent with how a well-informed independent third party non-controlling interest in the Consumer healthcare joint venture would value these liabilities: and therefore this liability did not exist at the year end.
assessed the appropriateness of the accounting for acquisitionThe valuations of the liabilities are sensitive to changes in related liabilities: and exchange rates, discount rates and sales forecasts, which are based upon managements assessment of the probability of evaluated the disclosures in respect to these liabilities included success of pipeline products, expected launch dates, subsequent in the notes to the financial statements to determine whether sales volumes and pricing.
they were compliant with the requirements of the relevant accounting standards.
The key risks in the valuation of the acquisition-related liabilities, specifically the sales forecast used to value the ViiV CCL and Internal controls over financial reporting particularly the dolutegravir-based regimens as, in our view, these We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness give rise to the most material source of estimation uncertainty.
of key controls identified over the valuation of the acquisition-related liabilities, such as the review and approval of both the long-range The acquisition related liabilities are disclosed as a key forecast and the valuation models.
accounting judgement and estimate in note 3 of the Group financial statement with further disclosures provided in notes 27, Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee 38, 39 and 42.
The matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Whilst there are significant commercial risks to the forecasts for the Committee report within the Corporate Governance section of future sales of dolutegravir-based regimens and related products, the Annual Report.
we are satisfied that the valuations of associated liabilities are within an acceptable range of values.
The approach to valuing the acquisition-related liabilities was consistent with prior periods and we are satisfied that the valuations of the acquisition-related liabilities are reasonable and consistent with IFRS.
131 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Valuation of US Returns and Rebates RAR accruals Audit procedures performed In the US the Group sells to customers under various commercial We performed the following audit procedures: and government mandated contracts and reimbursement assessed the historical accuracy of managements estimates arrangements that include rebates, chargebacks and a right of against actual outcomes to evaluate the impact and inform our return for certain products.
As such, revenue recognition reflects assessment of the current year accrual: gross-to-net sales adjustments which involve significant estimation and judgement.
These adjustments are known as the Returns and developed an expectation of the accrual balance for each of the Rebates RAR accruals and are a source of estimation and key channels, based on historical claims received adjusted to uncertainty which could have a material impact on reported revenue.
reflect market changes in the period including an assessment of The three most significant payer channels within the RAR accrual are the time lag between the initial point of sale and the claim receipt.
managed healthcare organisations, Medicaid and Medicare Part D. We then used this expectation to consider the appropriateness of managements ending accrual position: The two main causes of significant estimation uncertainty are: recalculated the accrual recognised to determine that it is the utilisation rates the portion of total sales which will be made consistent with the assumptions determined through into each payer channel estimated by management in recording managements process: the accruals.
The utilisation assumption is the most challenging substantively tested individual utilisation rates on a sample basis: of the key assumptions used to derive the accrual given that it is influenced by market demand and other factors outside the evaluated, through monitoring of news events and industry control of the Group: and developments, the appropriateness of period end adjustments to the liability made as part of the ongoing review of the estimated the time lag between the point of sale and the point at which accrual: exact rebate amounts are known to the Group upon receipt of a claim.
Those payer channels with the longest time lag result evaluated and benchmarked the methodology applied by in a greater accrued period, and as such a greater level of management in estimating the accrual against industry practice: estimation uncertainty.
and The level of estimation uncertainty is also impacted by significant monitored the market for any significant events in the period, giving shifts in channel mix driven by changes in the competitive a particular focus to any potential generic competition in respect landscape.
to Advair, one of the Groups most significant products.
A generic Advair competitor product was not approved by the US Food and In the US Pharmaceuticals business in 2018, 10,774 million of Drug Administration FDA until the end of January 2019, and RAR deductions were made to gross revenue of 18,227 million, therefore there was no additional risk associated with market resulting in net revenue of 7,453 million.
The balance sheet events in determining the 2018 Advair RAR liability.
accrual at 31 December 2018 accrual for the combined Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses amounted to Internal controls over financial reporting 4,356 million.
We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of key controls over the estimation of RAR accruals including the review Returns and rebates are disclosed as a key accounting judgement of forecasts and monthly accruals.
and estimate in note 3 of the Group financial statement with further disclosures provided in note 27.
The matter is also discussed in the Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee Audit & Risk Committee report within the Corporate Governance Based on our assessment of the accuracy of historical estimates section of the Annual Report.
made by management by comparing them to actual rebates claimed, we determined that the estimates have been accurate in the past giving further assurance over the strength of managements process for estimating the liability at the reporting date.
We are satisfied with the appropriateness of the RAR accruals at the period end, and that managements estimated liability is reasonable.
132 GSK Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors report continued Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Valuation of intangible assets Audit procedures performed As at 31 December 2018, the Group held 16,156 million of We assessed the appropriateness of the carrying value of the intangible assets including licences, patents, trademarks and intangible assets by performing the following audit procedures: brand names, but excluding goodwill and computer software.
assessed the valuation methodology used by management, The recoverable value of these intangible assets relies on certain with involvement of our valuation specialists, and tested the assumptions and estimates of future trading performance which mechanical accuracy of the impairment models: impact the valuation.
evaluated the reasonableness of the valuation assumptions, The assumptions applied by management in determining the such as discount rates, used by management through reference recoverable value include the discount rate, future sales growth to external market data: rate, the impact of the expiry of patents on the product and reviewed analyst reports and other external sources of potential product obsolescence.
Changes in these assumptions information to identify any contradictory evidence which could lead to an impairment to the carrying value of the intangible could indicate an impairment is required: assets.
challenged the appropriateness of the business assumptions The assets most at risk of material impairment were identified using used by management, such as sales growth and the probability sensitivity analysis on key assumptions and a review of potential of success of products in development by assessing externally triggering events that could be indicative of an impairment in the available reference data to look for contradictory evidence, carrying value of associated assets.
evaluate past performances where relevant and assessing The disclosures relating to other intangible assets are included in historical accuracy of the forecast produced by management: note 19 of the Group financial statements.
The matter is also enquired of and challenged management on the commercial discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report within the strategy associated with the products to ensure that it was Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
consistent with the assumptions used in estimating future cash flows: and considered whether events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date but before the reporting date affect the conclusions reached on the carrying values of the assets and associated disclosures.
Internal controls over financial reporting We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of key controls over the impairment review process including the review and approval of forecasts and review of valuation models.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee Our audit procedures did not identify any additional impairments.
We are satisfied that managements intangible impairments estimates are reasonable and in accordance with IFRS.
133 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Valuation of uncertain tax positions, including transfer pricing Audit procedures performed and updates to the impacts of the US Tax Reform With the support of tax specialists, we assessed the The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions and there are appropriateness of the uncertain tax provisions by performing the open tax and transfer pricing issues and exposures with UK following audit procedures: and overseas tax authorities that give rise to uncertain tax assessed and challenged provisions for uncertain tax positions, positions.
The range of possible outcomes for provisions and and focused our work on those jurisdictions where the Group contingencies can be wide and management is required to make has the greatest potential exposure and where the highest level certain judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and of judgement is required: contingencies in order to assess the adequacy of tax provisions.
involved our transfer pricing specialists to review the transfer At 31 December 2018, the Group has recorded provisions of pricing methodology of the Group and associated approach 1,082 million in respect of uncertain tax positions 2017 to provisioning: 1,175 million.
involved our UK, US and international tax and transfer specialists On 22 December 2017, the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was to challenge the conclusions reached by management, both in enacted.
There was limited guidance provided by the US relation to the expected outcome and the financial impact: Treasury on how to apply the principles of the reform in practice considered evidence such as the actual results of previous and, as such, judgement was required as at 2017 year end.
outturns, recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries, Management continued to monitor the impact of the reform third party tax advice where obtained and our tax specialists on the US business and the associated accounting records.
own knowledge of market practice in relevant jurisdictions: and Given the complexity and uncertainty relating to US tax reform, management is required to make judgements, assumptions and involved Deloitte US Tax specialists to determine the interpretations of the tax law.
Following additional guidance reasonableness of the judgements in respect of the US released by the Internal Revenue Service during 2018, the Tax Reform.
Group reduced its estimate of the 2017 impact of US tax reform Internal controls over financial reporting by 125 million.
We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness Valuation of uncertain tax positions is disclosed as a key of key controls over preparation of tax packs and tax consolidation.
accounting judgement and estimate in note 3 of the Group Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee financial statements with further disclosures included in note 14.
We are satisfied that managements judgements in relation to The matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee uncertain tax positions and the related disclosures are in report within the Corporate Governance section of the Annual accordance with IFRS.
From our work we concluded that Report.
managements judgements were prudent, consistent with prior periods, within an acceptable range and continue to be appropriately recorded.
134 GSK Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors report continued Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter IT systems which impact financial reporting Audit procedures performed over IT systems In our audit plan we set out to place a significant level of reliance We performed the following risk assessment and audit procedures on the IT systems, underpinned by our ability to rely on effective to test IT controls over the in scope IT systems, which are those IT controls.
The IT systems within the Group form a critical systems that we considered key for financial reporting purposes: component of the Groups financial reporting activities and identified the IT risks for each IT system based on our impact all account balances.
IT controls, in the context of our understanding of the flows of transactions and the IT environment: scope for the financial audit, primarily relate to user access security and change control.
The purpose of such controls is to determined whether each general IT control, individually or prevent inappropriate changes being made to IT systems in in combination with other controls, is appropriately designed relation to application functionality, transactional processing and to address the associated IT risk: and direct changes to underlying data.
GSK place significant reliance tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness on their IT systems and the associated controls.
of the relevant general IT controls.
IT control deficiencies were noted around user access management for certain in scope IT systems and the associated infrastructure.
The existence of these deficiencies in the year resulted in a heightened risk that data, reports and automated system functionality e. g. calculations from the affected systems might not be reliable.
We assessesed the impact of the deficiencies noted around user access management on all account balances to determine the specific impact on our audit plan.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee During the year, the Group implemented a remediation plan to address the user access deficiencies.
This primarily involved the removal of inappropriate access together with the implementation of appropriate privileged access management processes and controls which is planned to be fully complete in 2019.
The Group has layers of business process controls at many levels which help to mitigate this IT risk.
An additional programme to identify and validate these controls, as well as some enhancement to these controls was completed during 2018.
The IT deficiencies were reported to the Audit & Risk Committee throughout the year and have been disclosed in the Audit & Risk Committee section of the Annual Report.
The matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report within the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
We were satisfied that the mitigating business process controls addressed the risks of material misstatement.
135 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 270 million 67 million Basic for In determining our benchmark for materiality we Materiality was determined using the total assets determining considered the metrics used by investors and other benchmark.
materiality readers of the financial statements.
In particular, we The materiality used by the former auditor in the audit considered: Statutory profit before tax, Adjusted profit of the prior years Parent company financial statements before tax, Revenue and Net cash flows from was 70 million.
However, given the importance of all these metrics, we concluded that a composite approach was most appropriate, based on the range of materiality we determined using the benchmarks listed above.
Using professional judgement we have determined preliminary materiality to be 270 million to apply conservatism to our determination given that this is the first year of our audit.
Metric % Statutory profit before tax 5.6 Adjusted profit before tax 3.3 Revenue 0.9 Net cash inflow from operating activities 3.2 A reconciliation between the Statutory profit before tax and Adjusted profit before tax is detailed in the Adjusting Items section of the Strategic Report.
The materiality used by the former auditor in the audit of the prior years Group financial statements was 290 million.
Rationale for We calculated the range for each of the relevant The Parent company holds the Groups investments and the benchmark benchmarks and used these ranges in exercising our is not in itself profit-oriented.
The strength of the balance applied professional judgement to determine materiality.
Our sheet is the key measure of financial health that is chosen materiality of 270 million was deemed to be important to shareholders since the primary concern for appropriate taking into account various metrics used by the Parent company is the payment of dividends.
Using investors and other readers of the financial statements.
a benchmark of total assets is therefore most appropriate.
The component materiality allocated to the in-scope components ranged between 67 million and 189 million.
The range of materiality allocated across components by the former auditor in the audit of the prior years Group financial statements was between 15 million and 154 million.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 10 million 2017 10 million was used by the previous auditor as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit & Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
136 GSK Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors report continued Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
We summarise below our work in relation to areas of the other information including those areas upon which we are specifically required to report: Matters we are specifically required to report Our responsibility Our reporting Fair, balanced and understandable Consider whether the statement given by the directors that they consider the We consider that the directors statement is materially Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and consistent with our knowledge obtained from the audit.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained from the audit.
Audit & Risk Committee report Consider whether it deals appropriately with those matters that we reported All matters we reported have been appropriately covered in to the Audit & Risk Committee.
the Audit & Risk Committee report.
Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code We did not identify any such matters.
Consider whether the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Parent companys compliance with the Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 properly discloses any departure from a relevant provision of the Code.
Viability statement Review the confirmation and description in the light of the knowledge As set out in the section Conclusions relating to going gathered during the audit, including making enquiries and considering the concern, principal risks and viability statement, we have directors processes used to support the statements made.
nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Consider if the statements are aligned with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Directors Remuneration report Report whether the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited As set out in the section Opinions on other matters is properly prepared and the disclosures specified by the Companies Act prescribed by the Companies Act 2006, in our opinion, the have been made.
part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Strategic report and Directors report Report whether they are consistent with the audited financial statements As set out in the section Opinions on other matters and are prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
prescribed by the Companies Act 2006, in our opinion, Report if we have identified any material misstatements in either report in based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the Parent information in these reports is consistent with the audited company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
137 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Other information continued Other reporting on other information Our responsibility Our reporting Alternative performance measures APMs APMs are measures that are not defined by generally accepted accounting Based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, in practice GAAP and therefore are not typically included in the financial our opinion: statement part of the Annual Report.
The Group use APMs, such as adjusted the use, calculation and disclosure of APMs is consistent profit, free cash flow and constant currency growth rates in some of its with the Groups published definitions and policies: quarterly and annual reporting of financial performance.
the use of APMs in the Groups reporting results is We have reviewed and assessed managements calculation and reporting of consistent with the guidelines produced by ESMA these metrics to assess consistency with the Groups published definitions and FRC: and and policies for these items.
there is an appropriate balance between the use of We have also considered and assessed whether the use of APMs in the statutory metrics and APMs, together with clear definitions Groups reporting results is consistent with the guidelines produced by and reconciliation for APMs used in financial reporting.
regulators such as the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA guidelines on the use of APMs and the FRC Alternative Performance Measures Thematic Review published in November 2017.
We also considered whether there was an appropriate balance between the use of statutory metrics and APMs, in addition to whether clear definitions and reconciliation for APMs used in financial reporting.
Approach to Brexit Consider whether the Brexit risks have been appropriately reflected.
Based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, in our opinion, the risks in relation to Brexit have been The Groups approach to Brexit is outlined in the Strategic report appropriately reflected.
Dividends and distribution policy Consider whether the dividends policy is transparent and the dividends paid Based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, in are consistent with the policy.
our opinion, the dividends policy is appropriately disclosed and dividends paid are consistent with the policy.
138 GSK Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors report continued discussing among the engagement team including significant Responsibilities of directors component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, including tax, valuations, pensions, IT and industry specialists the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, statements and any potential indicators of fraud: and and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
that had a direct effect on the financial statements, such as In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible provisions of the UK Companies Act, pensions legislation and tax for assessing the Groups and the Parent companys ability to legislations or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters the Group, including the Good Clinical Practice, the FDA related to going concern and using the going concern basis of regulations, General Data Protection requirements, Anti-bribery accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group and corruption policy and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
or the Parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic Audit response to risks identified alternative but to do so.
Our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to statements supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material enquiring of management, the Audit & Risk Committee and misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors in-house and external legal counsel concerning actual and report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level potential litigation and claims: of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or misstatement due to fraud: and error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
and reviewing internal audit reports.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of We have also considered the risks noted above in addressing the risk detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
of fraud through management override of controls: A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting auditors report.
estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and Extent to which the audit was considered capable of evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions detecting irregularities, including fraud that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the potential fraud risks to all engagement team members and significant financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide the audit.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to Report on other legal and regulatory requirements irregularities Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act In identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in 2006 respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the enquiring of management, internal audit and the Audit & Risk Companies Act 2006.
Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures audit: relating to: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations report for the financial year for which the financial statements are and whether they were aware of any instances of nonprepared is consistent with the financial statements: and compliance: the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud the Parent company and their environment obtained in the course of or non-compliance with laws and regulations: the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
139 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee, we were appointed by the Company at its annual general meeting on 3 May 2018 to audit the financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is accordingly one year.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit & Risk Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit & Risk Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
The Parent company has passed a resolution in accordance with section 506 of the Companies Act that the senior statutory auditors name should not be stated.
Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 11 March 2019
