"Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Glencore plc and its subsidiaries together ""the Group"" as at 31 December 2018 and of the Group's profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ""IFRSs"" as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ""IASB"" : and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991."
We have audited the financial statements of the Group which comprise: the consolidated statement of income: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated statement of financial position: the consolidated statement of cash flows: the consolidated statement of changes of equity: and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: United States Department of Justice investigation: Impairments: Revenue recognition: Fair value measurements: Classification of financial instruments: Credit and performance risk: and Taxation: Uncertain tax positions and the recognition and recoverability of deferred taxes Our assessment of the Group's key audit matters is broadly consistent with 2017.
The 'Katanga Mining Limited Restatements' key audit matter as included in our 2017 Audit Report was removed as that matter was concluded in the prior year.
We identified the 'United States Department of Justice investigation' as a current year key audit matter following the receipt by the Group in July 2018 of a subpoena in connection with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Anti-money laundering statutes.
Materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be $250 million 2017: $200 million, based on a normalised 3-year average pre-tax profit.
Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 42 components, representing the Groups most material marketing operations and industrial assets.
These 42 components account for 87% of the Groups net assets, 96% of the Groups revenue and 98% of the Groups adjusted EBITDA refer to segment information in note 2.
Significant changes Aside from the changes in key audit matters noted above, there were no significant changes to our in our approach audit approach when compared to 2017.
124 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glencore Annual Report 2018 124 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Report on the audit of the financial statements Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in the basis of preparation section of note 1 to the We confirm that we have financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern nothing material to report, basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to add or draw attention to in the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of respect of these matters.
Opinion approval of the financial statements.
"In our opinion the financial statements: We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Glencore plc and its subsidiaries together ""the Group"" as at 31 December 2018 reporting framework and the system of internal control."
"We evaluated the directors assessment and of the Group's profit for the year then ended: of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ""IFRSs"" as adopted by the key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ""IASB"" : and in relation to their going concern assessment."
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially We have audited the financial statements of the Group which comprise: inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
the consolidated statement of income: Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent nothing material to report, with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the consolidated statement of financial position: add or draw attention to in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, we respect of these matters.
are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the consolidated statement of cash flows: the disclosures on pages 24 to 35 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being the consolidated statement of changes of equity: and managed or mitigated: the related notes 1 to 35. the directors' confirmation on page 103 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future Union and as issued by the IASB.
performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 26 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, Basis for opinion over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any section of our report.
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Key audit matters We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due Summary of our audit approach to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
United States Department of Justice investigation: These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairments: Revenue recognition: Fair value measurements: Classification of financial instruments: Credit and performance risk: and Taxation: Uncertain tax positions and the recognition and recoverability of deferred taxes Our assessment of the Group's key audit matters is broadly consistent with 2017.
Glencore Annual Report 2018 124 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 1251 25 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc continued United States Department of Justice investigation Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter The Group's businesses in Nigeria, Venezuela and the The audit procedures performed in response to the DoJ Democratic Republic of the Congo DRC are currently under investigation included the following: investigation by the United States US Department of Justice Reviewed the scope and work plan of external legal counsel DoJ with respect to non-compliance with the US Foreign and the appointed forensic accountants and, in consultation Corrupt Practices Act FCPA and Anti-money laundering with relevant Deloitte experts, assessed the competence, AML regulations from 2007 to present.
capabilities and objectivity of management's experts and Glencores activities in Nigeria within this period are limited whether their scope of work and approach is appropriate primarily to oil offtake agreements.
and comprehensive enough to address the requirements of the investigation: Its activities in Venezuela over the period which is subject to the investigation cover certain oil offtake contracts with the Held regular discussions with representatives of the Venezuelan national oil company, Petrleos fide Venezuela Board Oversight Committee, Glencore's Head of Legal PDVSA.
Glencore is currently one of a number of defendants and Compliance and external legal counsel to understand in a court case brought by the PDVSA Litigation Trust.
the status of the investigation and findings to date and information provided to the DoJ.
We also enquired of any The group holds significant investments in copper and cobalt known or likely non-compliance identified and any potential operations in the DRC through Katanga Mining Limited provisions required: Katanga and Mutanda Mining SPRL Mutanda, initially acquired in 2007.
In 2017, the group increased its stake in these Requested legal confirmations on any known or probable entities, ending any shareholder relationships with a former exposures as a result of the investigation: and shareholder, who became a Specially Designated National Obtained management's current assessment of whether or SDN subject to US sanctions in the latter half of 2016.
The not there is a material exposure that is probable and whether Group continues to honour legally binding royalty agreements the quantification of the potential exposure at year-end is with an associated company of the former shareholder.
possible, and challenged the validity, completeness and Each of these jurisdictions are considered high risk political appropriateness of the contingent liability disclosures in environments resulting in a higher risk of non-compliance the financial statements.
with the US FCPA and AML legislation.
On receipt of the subpoena, the Glencore plc Board of Directors reconstituted the existing Investigations Committee the Committee to assess the implications of the investigation and to oversee the Companys response to the DoJs investigation.
This Committee has engaged external independent legal counsel in the US to lead the investigation, who has in turn appointed forensic accountants to assist in the investigation.
There is a risk that a material provision will be required to settle the DoJ investigation which is not recorded in the current years financial statements.
As at 31 December 2018, the company has disclosed a contingent liability under IAS 37: Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets that the timing of the completion of the investigations, the outcome and the subsequent discussions with the authorities are uncertain.
At present, it is not possible to reliably estimate the timing or amount of any potential settlement or fines, which could be material.
We also refer readers to page 96 for the Board discussions on this matter.
Key observations Based on the results of our procedures, we concluded that the timing of the completion of the investigations, the outcome and the subsequent discussions with the DoJ are uncertain.
We concurred that the recognition, measurement and disclosure of any potential exposure in relation to the US Department of Justice investigation is in line with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
1 12 26 6 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc continued United States Department of Justice investigation Impairments Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter The Group's businesses in Nigeria, Venezuela and the The audit procedures performed in response to the DoJ The carrying value of the Groups non-current assets within We reviewed managements assessment of impairment risk and Democratic Republic of the Congo DRC are currently under investigation included the following: the scope of IAS 36 Impairment of assets IAS 36 includes their assessment of the indicators of impairment and challenged investigation by the United States US Department of Justice intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, non-financial the significant assumptions used.
We performed a walkthrough Reviewed the scope and work plan of external legal counsel DoJ with respect to non-compliance with the US Foreign instrument advances and loans, and investments in associates of managements impairment analysis process and assessed the and the appointed forensic accountants and, in consultation Corrupt Practices Act FCPA and Anti-money laundering and joint ventures, and amounted to $79,238 million at design and implementation of key controls within this process.
with relevant Deloitte experts, assessed the competence, AML regulations from 2007 to present.
31 December 2018. capabilities and objectivity of management's experts and We sought to identify additional potential indicators of Glencores activities in Nigeria within this period are limited whether their scope of work and approach is appropriate The volatility in expected future prices of certain commodities key impairment through our review of operational performance primarily to oil offtake agreements.
and comprehensive enough to address the requirements to the Group particularly oil, copper, cobalt, zinc and coal, foreign and financial results as well as the impact of any significant of the investigation: exchange rates, production levels, operating costs, discount rates regulatory changes.
Its activities in Venezuela over the period which is subject to and macro-economic developments require management to the investigation cover certain oil offtake contracts with the Held regular discussions with representatives of the Where indicators of impairment or impairment reversals were closely monitor non-current asset carrying values.
Venezuelan national oil company, Petrleos fide Venezuela Board Oversight Committee, Glencore's Head of Legal identified, we utilised Deloitte valuation and mining specialists PDVSA.
Glencore is currently one of a number of defendants and Compliance and external legal counsel to understand Given the nature of the Groups industrial assets, developments to assess the appropriateness of managements underlying in a court case brought by the PDVSA Litigation Trust.
the status of the investigation and findings to date and concerning geology, production or distribution of the Groups model inputs and significant assumptions.
information provided to the DoJ.
We also enquired of any products, or changes in local income and mining taxes or The group holds significant investments in copper and cobalt In performing our challenge, we considered the risk of known or likely non-compliance identified and any potential royalties may also trigger a need to consider impairment.
operations in the DRC through Katanga Mining Limited management bias in the assumptions and estimates.
We provisions required: Katanga and Mutanda Mining SPRL Mutanda, initially For loans, advances and other investments, assessing challenged the significant inputs and assumptions used in acquired in 2007.
In 2017, the group increased its stake in these Requested legal confirmations on any known or probable counterparty risk, solvency and liquidity can be highly subjective.
impairment and impairment reversal testing for intangible entities, ending any shareholder relationships with a former exposures as a result of the investigation: and assets, property, plant and equipment, and investments in Management completes an impairment review on all of the shareholder, who became a Specially Designated National associates and joint ventures.
Obtained management's current assessment of whether or Groups significant assets and investments annually, as part SDN subject to US sanctions in the latter half of 2016.
The not there is a material exposure that is probable and whether of the Groups budgeting process.
Our challenge included comparing inputs and significant Group continues to honour legally binding royalty agreements the quantification of the potential exposure at year-end is assumptions as noted above, to third party forecasts and with an associated company of the former shareholder.
As disclosed in note 6, the enactment of the 2018 Mining Code possible, and challenged the validity, completeness and Deloitte developed discount rates.
Production assumptions in the DRC 2018 DRC Mining Code which increases tax Each of these jurisdictions are considered high risk political appropriateness of the contingent liability disclosures in were compared to life of mine plans where applicable as well and royalty rates, introduces new taxes and includes a potential environments resulting in a higher risk of non-compliance the financial statements.
as reserves and resources estimates.
restriction over the repatriation of funds out of the country with the US FCPA and AML legislation.
was identified as an impairment indicator affecting Glencores Operating costs and production levels were also compared On receipt of the subpoena, the Glencore plc Board of investments in the DRC.
In addition, changes in Zambian tax to the current period actual results, management approved Directors reconstituted the existing Investigations Committee legislation and delays on ramp up of development projects were budgets and life of mine models.
Further, we assessed whether the Committee to assess the implications of the investigation identified as impairment indicators for the Mopani operation.
macro assumptions had been applied on a consistent basis and to oversee the Companys response to the DoJs across the Group.
The outcome of impairment assessments could vary significantly investigation.
This Committee has engaged external were different assumptions applied.
Refer to Key sources of We challenged managements sensitivity analysis by performing independent legal counsel in the US to lead the investigation, estimation uncertainty within note 1, sensitivity disclosures independent sensitivity analyses on selected assets, including who has in turn appointed forensic accountants to assist within note 6, as well as the Audit Committee Report on page those which were not identified as having indicators of in the investigation.
As a result, we have identified a fraud risk due to the impairment but have a higher risk of impairment due to lower There is a risk that a material provision will be required to significant estimation uncertainty and subjectivity in certain available headroom in fair value models, volatility in key pricing settle the DoJ investigation which is not recorded in the current judgements and key assumptions applied by management assumptions, or the existence of operational circumstances years financial statements.
in the impairment assessment, including the potential for which may indicate potential for impairment.
the operations impacted by the 2018 DRC Mining Code, we As at 31 December 2018, the company has disclosed a contingent applied various scenarios and interpretations of the legislation liability under IAS 37: Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Impairments amounting to $600 million and $803 million were to challenge managements assumed position.
For Mopani, Contingent Assets that the timing of the completion of the recognised on the Mutanda and Mopani operations, respectively.
we applied various scenarios to evaluate a range of potential investigations, the outcome and the subsequent discussions In addition, $49 million of other impairments were recognised in outcomes on the probability of successful ramp-up and with the authorities are uncertain.
At present, it is not possible various other industrial assets in relation to specific items within execution of development projects.
to reliably estimate the timing or amount of any potential Property, Plant and Equipment.
settlement or fines, which could be material.
Please refer With respect to non-financial instrument advances and loans to note 31. of $1,588 million, our procedures included challenging their recoverability by reviewing supporting agreements and We also refer readers to page 96 for the Board discussions on obtaining evidence of current performance to identify potential this matter.
We assessed the adequacy of impairment related disclosures Key observations in the financial statements, including the key assumptions Based on the results of our procedures, we concluded that the timing of the completion of the investigations, the outcome and used and the sensitivity of the financial statements to the subsequent discussions with the DoJ are uncertain.
At present, it is not possible to reliably estimate the timing or amount of these assumptions.
any potential settlement or fines, which could be material.
We concurred that the recognition, measurement and disclosure of any potential exposure in relation to the US Department of Justice investigation is in line with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities Key observations and Contingent Assets.
Based on the results of our testing, we concluded that managements assessment of impairment indicators was appropriate.
Where there were impairment indicators, our procedures found that the impairment models were in line with the underlying mine plans and supported by acceptable inputs and assumptions.
We concluded that the key pricing, foreign exchange and discount rate assumptions were in line with third party evidence and our specialists acceptable ranges.
We found managements disclosures on key assumptions and impairment sensitivities to be in compliance with IFRS requirements.
126 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 1271 27 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc continued Revenue recognition Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Revenue for the year was $219,754 million 2017: $205,476 million.
We have reviewed Glencores revenue recognition policies Refer to note 1 for the revenue accounting policies.
for compliance with the requirements of IFRS.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 For marketing operations we: replaced all the previous revenue standards and interpretations assessed the design, implementation and tested the in IFRS with a revised framework for revenue recognition.
operating effectiveness of key controls surrounding the Identifying the point of control transfer and fulfilment of completeness and accuracy of trade capture and the performance obligations is a key judgement in determining revenue and trade cycle: the timing of revenue recognition.
tested the operating effectiveness of general IT controls We presume a risk of material misstatement due to fraud related surrounding major technology applications and critical to revenue recognition.
The identification of revenue recognition interfaces involving revenue recognition and the as a key audit matter primarily relates to the following: completeness and accuracy of trade capture: Marketing operations: obtained third party confirmations where relevant to We identified a risk that the capture of trades and their key assess completeness and accuracy of trade books: contractual terms within the trade book is incomplete or tested the accuracy of trades entered into around the inaccurate, impacting the timing and quantum of revenue reporting date within the trade book system by tracing recognition for commodity sales with deliveries occurring and agreeing a sample of trades from their source on or around year-end.
documents to the trade book system: Judgement is required to determine when control is transferred utilised data analytics tools to test the completeness, under certain contractual arrangements with third parties, occurrence and accuracy of realised revenue and enhance especially on or around year-end, and in particular where the audit effectiveness over large transaction volumes: sale of goods is connected with an agreement to repurchase goods at a later date.
agreed, on a sample basis, deliveries occurring on or around 31 December 2018 between the trade book system and the As a majority of the Groups trades are measured at fair value relevant shipping documents to assess whether the IFRS through profit and loss, a complete and accurate trade capture revenue recognition criteria were met for recorded sales: and process that includes all specific and bespoke terms within the commodity contracts is critical for accurate financial reporting reviewed key contracts for the existence of embedded and monitoring of trade book exposures and performance.
derivatives and performed valuation testing as appropriate.
Where sales are made at fixed prices with future delivery, the For industrial assets we: consideration of embedded derivatives in sales contracts is assessed the design and implementation of controls around required for accurate financial reporting.
the methodology adopted by management to identify the Marketing related activities depend on the reliability of the provisional pricing terms and the determination of estimates trade capture systems and their IT infrastructure environment.
of metal in concentrate sold to third parties: Industrial assets: obtained third party confirmations to assess the completeness Substantially all output from industrial assets is sold by the and accuracy of third party sales: and Groups marketing divisions.
Where third party sales occur, the reviewed key contracts for the existence of embedded key risks relate to provisional pricing terms, metal concentrate derivatives and assessed the pricing and other assumptions estimates and the consideration of embedded derivatives in utilised in the valuation against independent third-party sales contracts.
pricing sources and recalculated the mathematical accuracy Judgement must be exercised to determine when control of the valuation.
has transferred under bill and hold and other non-standard contract arrangements.
Key observations Based on the results of our testing, we are satisfied that the revenue recognition policies are in line with IFRS and were appropriately applied throughout the period.
1 12 28 8 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc continued Revenue recognition Fair value measurements Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Revenue for the year was $219,754 million 2017: $205,476 million.
We have reviewed Glencores revenue recognition policies Determination of fair values of marketing inventories, We assessed the design and implementation and tested Refer to note 1 for the revenue accounting policies.
financial assets and liabilities is a complex and subjective the operating effectiveness of key internal controls over area often requiring significant estimates, particularly where managements processes for determining inputs to fair value IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 For marketing operations we: valuations utilise unobservable inputs e. g. price differentials, measurements and performed detailed substantive testing replaced all the previous revenue standards and interpretations assessed the design, implementation and tested the credit risk assessments, market volatility and forecast on a sample basis of the related fair value measurements.
in IFRS with a revised framework for revenue recognition.
operating effectiveness of key controls surrounding the operational estimates.
At 31 December 2018, total Level 3 Identifying the point of control transfer and fulfilment of completeness and accuracy of trade capture and the Using financial instrument specialists embedded within the Other financial assets and liabilities amounted to $552 million performance obligations is a key judgement in determining revenue and trade cycle: audit team with experience in commodity trading, we specifically and $539 million respectively.
the timing of revenue recognition.
tested the evidence supporting significant unobservable inputs tested the operating effectiveness of general IT controls As $41,308 million of the Groups advances and loans, marketing utilised in Level 3 measurements in the fair value hierarchy as We presume a risk of material misstatement due to fraud related surrounding major technology applications and critical inventories, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other outlined in notes 25 and 28 to the financial statements, which to revenue recognition.
The identification of revenue recognition interfaces involving revenue recognition and the financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value at each included assessing managements valuation assumptions as a key audit matter primarily relates to the following: completeness and accuracy of trade capture: reporting date, these fair value measurements significantly against independent price quotes, recent transactions and impact the Groups results.
Marketing operations: obtained third party confirmations where relevant to We identified a risk that the capture of trades and their key assess completeness and accuracy of trade books: Refer to Key sources of estimation uncertainty within note 1 contractual terms within the trade book is incomplete or and additionally notes 11, 12, 13, 24, 25, 27 and 28. tested the accuracy of trades entered into around the inaccurate, impacting the timing and quantum of revenue reporting date within the trade book system by tracing recognition for commodity sales with deliveries occurring and agreeing a sample of trades from their source Key observations on or around year-end.
documents to the trade book system: Based on the results of our testing, we are satisfied that the level 3 fair value measurements are supported by reasonable assumptions Judgement is required to determine when control is transferred utilised data analytics tools to test the completeness, in line with recent transactions and or externally verifiable information.
under certain contractual arrangements with third parties, occurrence and accuracy of realised revenue and enhance especially on or around year-end, and in particular where the We found the financial statement disclosures on fair value measurements to be adequate.
audit effectiveness over large transaction volumes: sale of goods is connected with an agreement to repurchase goods at a later date.
agreed, on a sample basis, deliveries occurring on or around Classification of financial instruments 31 December 2018 between the trade book system and the As a majority of the Groups trades are measured at fair value relevant shipping documents to assess whether the IFRS Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter through profit and loss, a complete and accurate trade capture revenue recognition criteria were met for recorded sales: and Glencore trades a diverse portfolio of commodities and utilises a We obtained an understanding of the trading strategies process that includes all specific and bespoke terms within the wide variety of trading strategies in order to profit from volatility and associated product flows within the Groups marketing commodity contracts is critical for accurate financial reporting reviewed key contracts for the existence of embedded in market prices, differentials and spreads whilst maximising departments, including assessment of the design and and monitoring of trade book exposures and performance.
implementation of the key controls over market risk Where sales are made at fixed prices with future delivery, the For industrial assets we: management using financial instrument specialists embedded consideration of embedded derivatives in sales contracts is IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 supersedes IAS 39 assessed the design and implementation of controls around within the audit team with experience in commodity trading.
required for accurate financial reporting.
Financial Instruments and covers classification and the methodology adopted by management to identify the measurement of financial assets and liabilities, impairment We evaluated and challenged managements assessments Marketing related activities depend on the reliability of the provisional pricing terms and the determination of estimates of financial assets and hedge accounting.
Refer to note 1 for the and conclusions relating to the implementation of IFRS 9, with trade capture systems and their IT infrastructure environment.
of metal in concentrate sold to third parties: description of changes in classification and measurement as a particular focus on the areas involving significant judgement Industrial assets: obtained third party confirmations to assess the completeness result of the adoption of IFRS 9.
The most significant changes and changes in classification or measurement approach.
Substantially all output from industrial assets is sold by the and accuracy of third party sales: and relate to the reassessment of classification of financial assets We analysed the trade books to understand unusual or complex Groups marketing divisions.
Where third party sales occur, the from four to three primary categories and the introduction reviewed key contracts for the existence of embedded derivatives open at year-end.
We also analysed the trading results key risks relate to provisional pricing terms, metal concentrate of an expected credit loss model for financial assets at amortised derivatives and assessed the pricing and other assumptions for portfolios designated as own use for evidence of any net estimates and the consideration of embedded derivatives in cost.
Implementation of these changes may require significant utilised in the valuation against independent third-party settlements, which may indicate potential tainting of the IFRS 9 sales contracts.
pricing sources and recalculated the mathematical accuracy own use criteria.
Judgement must be exercised to determine when control of the valuation.
The classification of contracts relating to the Groups marketing We challenged managements judgement and conclusions has transferred under bill and hold and other non-standard operations is a judgemental area, particularly distinguishing sales associated with classification and accounting for new contract arrangements.
contracts where the Group physically delivers its own production significant arrangements and or significant changes to to a third party own use, from those which form part of the existing arrangements containing a financing element.
Our Key observations Groups regular marketing operations.
The majority of the challenge included evaluation of commercial substance of the Groups trades are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
Based on the results of our testing, we are satisfied that the revenue recognition policies are in line with IFRS and were appropriately arrangements in context of applicable IFRS guidance and applied throughout the period.
Differences in classification affect the recognition of associated industry practice.
Contracts which are designated as own We assessed the adequacy of related disclosures in the financial use are exempt from fair value measurement i. e. mark-tostatements in accordance with the requirements of IFRS.
Transactions for the sale or purchase of commodities may contain a financing element and or embedded derivatives, which may require judgement in determining the most appropriate classification, presentation and accounting treatment.
Key observations Based on the results of our testing, we are satisfied that all significant assumptions applied in respect of the valuation and classification of financial instruments are appropriate and that disclosures given around financial instruments are in accordance with the requirements of IFRS.
128 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 1291 29 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc continued Credit and performance risk Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter The Group is exposed to credit and performance risk arising We assessed the design and implementation of internal controls from the Groups global production and marketing operations, relevant to the Groups centralised and local credit and particularly in markets demonstrating significant price volatility performance risk monitoring procedures.
with limited liquidity and terminal markets.
We challenged managements assessment of the recoverability This risk is heightened in times of increased price volatility, of aged and overdue receivables, loans and advance payments where suppliers may be incentivised to default on delivery with delayed or overdue deliveries, considering historical patterns and customers may be unwilling to take the deliveries or of trading and settlement as well as recent communications with unable to pay.
the counterparties and other post balance sheet date evidence.
At 31 December 2018, total advances and loans and accounts In addition, we challenged the valuation of significant fixed price receivable classified as financial assets amounted to $926 million positions across the Group at year-end, with particular focus on and $14,355 million respectively.
During the period, $191 million commodities demonstrating high price volatility during the year, of impairments of non-current financial assets were recognised where the risk of non-performance is higher.
on non-current advances and loans.
Refer to notes 11, 13 and 27 and the Audit Committee Report on page 109.
Key observations We concluded that the Groups provisioning in relation to counterparty and performance risk was appropriately assessed.
Taxation: Uncertain tax positions and the recognition and recoverability of deferred taxes Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter There is significant judgement around accounting for income We undertook a specific assessment of the material components taxes particularly in light of the number of jurisdictions in which impacting the Groups transfer pricing arrangements, deferred the Group operates, including judgements concerning presence tax assets, and tax disputes and exposures, and performed the of key corporate operations and holding companies, provisioning following audit procedures: for tax exposures, application of transfer pricing rules, the We considered the appropriateness of management's recognition of deferred income tax assets and the taxation assumptions and estimates to support the recognition of impacts of any corporate restructurings.
deferred tax assets with reference to forecast taxable profits, As described in notes 6 and 7, and the Audit Committee and the consistency of these forecasts with the Group's Report on page 109 the enactment of the 2018 DRC Mining budgets or underlying asset life of mine plans: Code has introduced higher tax and royalty rates including a We challenged management's application of the 2018 DRC new super profits tax SPT that overrides the existing tax Mining Code, specifically focusing on the impact of the stability agreements with the DRC government.
The calculation legislation on impairment models and tax losses carried of SPT is predicated on a base bankable feasibility study BFS forward, valuation of additional income tax accruals and and the legality of the immediate application of the 2018 DRC management's judgement on the SPT application, considering Mining Code is subject to legal challenge, therefore judgement any third party legal and tax opinions where relevant: is required on how this legislation should be interpreted and applied.
We reviewed and challenged management's assessment of uncertain tax positions and conclusions on complex tax This gives rise to complexity and uncertainty in respect of arrangements such as transfer pricing through discussions the calculation of income taxes and deferred tax assets and with the Group taxation department, reviewing consideration of contingent liabilities associated with tax years correspondence with local tax authorities, reviewing third party open to audit and other exposures such as the implementation expert tax opinions and utilising Deloitte tax specialists, where of the 2018 DRC Mining Code.
appropriate, to assess the adequacy of associated provisions As at 31 December 2018, the Group has recorded net deferred and disclosures: and tax liabilities of $6,839 million and net deferred tax assets of We challenged management on the disclosures in the $1,728 million.
Additionally, the Group has $7,871 million of financial statements in relation to taxation, specifically on the available gross tax losses carried forward and deductible requirement for adequate assessment of uncertainties and temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets have contingent liabilities.
The assessment of tax-related contingent liabilities has been disclosed in note 22.
Refer to Key sources of estimation uncertainty within note 1 and additional disclosures in notes 7 and 22, and the Audit Committee Report on page 109.
Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory and we concurred that the recorded deferred tax assets and uncertain tax provisions and related disclosures are appropriate.
1 13 30 0 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc continued Credit and performance risk Our application of materiality Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope The Group is exposed to credit and performance risk arising We assessed the design and implementation of internal controls of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
from the Groups global production and marketing operations, relevant to the Groups centralised and local credit and particularly in markets demonstrating significant price volatility performance risk monitoring procedures.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: with limited liquidity and terminal markets.
We challenged managements assessment of the recoverability Group materiality $250 million 2017: $200 million This risk is heightened in times of increased price volatility, of aged and overdue receivables, loans and advance payments where suppliers may be incentivised to default on delivery with delayed or overdue deliveries, considering historical patterns The applied materiality is approximately 5% of normalised 3-year average pre-tax profit 2017: 7%, and customers may be unwilling to take the deliveries or of trading and settlement as well as recent communications with and equates to less than 1% 2017: less than 1% of equity.
Group Maximum allowed Audit Committee At 31 December 2018, total advances and loans and accounts In addition, we challenged the valuation of significant fixed price materiality component materiality reporting threshold receivable classified as financial assets amounted to $926 million positions across the Group at year-end, with particular focus on US$ million US$ million US$ million and $14,355 million respectively.
250 on non-current advances and loans.
200 Refer to notes 11, 13 and 27 and the Audit Committee Report on page 109.
125 100 100 100 Key observations 2018 12 10 We concluded that the Groups provisioning in relation to counterparty and performance risk was appropriately assessed.
2017 Taxation: Uncertain tax positions and the recognition and recoverability of deferred taxes Basis for determining Consistent with the methodology in the prior year, we have determined materiality by using a Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter materiality percentage of a normalised 3-year average 2016 2018 of pre-tax profits.
The selected materiality There is significant judgement around accounting for income We undertook a specific assessment of the material components is 3.5% of current year normalised pre-tax profit without the effect of averaging.
taxes particularly in light of the number of jurisdictions in which impacting the Groups transfer pricing arrangements, deferred The normalising items are outlined in notes 4, 5 and 6 to the financial statements.
the Group operates, including judgements concerning presence tax assets, and tax disputes and exposures, and performed the of key corporate operations and holding companies, provisioning following audit procedures: Rationale for the The pre-tax profits for the 2016-2018 years have been normalised in determining materiality to exclude for tax exposures, application of transfer pricing rules, the benchmark applied items which, due to their variable financial impact and or expected infrequency of the underlying We considered the appropriateness of management's recognition of deferred income tax assets and the taxation events, are not considered indicative of continuing operations of the Group.
These items do not form assumptions and estimates to support the recognition of impacts of any corporate restructurings.
part of the Groups internally or externally monitored primary key performance indicators, and which deferred tax assets with reference to forecast taxable profits, if included, would distort materiality year-on-year.
As described in notes 6 and 7, and the Audit Committee and the consistency of these forecasts with the Group's Report on page 109 the enactment of the 2018 DRC Mining budgets or underlying asset life of mine plans: We consider this approach of using a 3-year average to be more appropriate than an assessment Code has introduced higher tax and royalty rates including a based on current year results alone given the nature of the mining industry which is exposed to We challenged management's application of the 2018 DRC new super profits tax SPT that overrides the existing tax cyclical commodity price fluctuations and to therefore provide a more appropriate base reflective Mining Code, specifically focusing on the impact of the stability agreements with the DRC government.
The calculation of the scale of the Groups size and operations.
legislation on impairment models and tax losses carried of SPT is predicated on a base bankable feasibility study BFS forward, valuation of additional income tax accruals and and the legality of the immediate application of the 2018 DRC The maximum permitted component materiality for marketing operations has increased to management's judgement on the SPT application, considering Mining Code is subject to legal challenge, therefore judgement $125 million equating to 50% of materiality.
Component materiality for industrial assets was limited any third party legal and tax opinions where relevant: is required on how this legislation should be interpreted to $100 million owing to their lower contribution to pre-tax profits on an individual basis.
We reviewed and challenged management's assessment of uncertain tax positions and conclusions on complex tax This gives rise to complexity and uncertainty in respect of We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $12 million 2017: arrangements such as transfer pricing through discussions the calculation of income taxes and deferred tax assets and $10 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report with the Group taxation department, reviewing consideration of contingent liabilities associated with tax years to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
correspondence with local tax authorities, reviewing third party open to audit and other exposures such as the implementation expert tax opinions and utilising Deloitte tax specialists, where of the 2018 DRC Mining Code.
An overview of the scope of our audit appropriate, to assess the adequacy of associated provisions As at 31 December 2018, the Group has recorded net deferred and disclosures: and Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and tax liabilities of $6,839 million and net deferred tax assets of assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on our continuing assessment, we focused our Group audit We challenged management on the disclosures in the $1,728 million.
Additionally, the Group has $7,871 million of scope primarily on the audit work at 42 components 2017: 47 components, representing the Group's most material marketing financial statements in relation to taxation, specifically on the available gross tax losses carried forward and deductible operations and industrial assets, and utilised 24 component audit teams 2017: 23 component audit teams in 20 countries requirement for adequate assessment of uncertainties and temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets have 2017: 20 countries contingent liabilities.
The assessment of tax-related contingent 27 components 2017: 27 components were subject to a full scope audit: and liabilities has been disclosed in note 22.
15 components 2017: 20 components were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based Refer to Key sources of estimation uncertainty within note 1 on our assessment of the risk of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Group's operations at those locations.
and additional disclosures in notes 7 and 22, and the Audit Committee Report on page 109.
These 42 components account for 87% of the Group's net assets 2017: 93%, 96% of the Group's revenue 2017: 94% and 98% of the Group's adjusted EBITDA 2017: 89%.
Key observations Net assets % Revenue % Adjusted EBITDA % The results of our testing were satisfactory and we concurred that the recorded deferred tax assets and uncertain tax provisions and related disclosures are appropriate.
4 2 13 15 Coverage 72 Full scope audit 96 98 specified audit procedures Analytical procedures 130 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 131 131 Marketing Ind asset Marketing Ind asset Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc continued Components are scoped based on their contribution to financial metrics revenue, EBIT and Adjusted EBITDA, production output and qualitative criteria, such as being a significant development project or exhibiting particular risk factors.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the auditors of these in-scope components.
These detailed audit instructions specified significant audit risks, areas of audit focus, identified the material account balances, classes of transactions, and disclosures and their relevant risks of material misstatement as assessed by the Group audit team and set out the information to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of regular on-site meetings with components designed to enable the Group Audit Partner or another senior member of the Group audit team to periodically meet with local management and the component audit team on a rotational basis.
In 2018, the Group audit team held in-person meetings with 11 components 2017: 21 components.
Additionally for all in-scope components, the Group audit team was involved in the audit work performed by the component auditors through a combination of our global planning conference call meetings, provision of referral instructions, review and challenge of related component inter-office reporting and of findings from their work which included the audit procedures performed to respond to risks of material misstatement, attendance at component audit closing conference calls and regular interaction on any related audit and accounting matters which arose.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there was no reasonable possibility of a risk of material misstatement in the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon.
to report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group's position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors' statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors' statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the company's compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
1 13 32 2 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc continued Components are scoped based on their contribution to financial metrics revenue, EBIT and Adjusted EBITDA, production output Responsibilities of directors and qualitative criteria, such as being a significant development project or exhibiting particular risk factors.
As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is Detailed audit instructions were sent to the auditors of these in-scope components.
These detailed audit instructions specified necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
significant audit risks, areas of audit focus, identified the material account balances, classes of transactions, and disclosures and their relevant risks of material misstatement as assessed by the Group audit team and set out the information to be reported back to the In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, Group audit team.
disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of regular on-site meetings with components designed to enable the Group either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Audit Partner or another senior member of the Group audit team to periodically meet with local management and the component audit team on a rotational basis.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material Additionally for all in-scope components, the Group audit team was involved in the audit work performed by the component auditors misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance through a combination of our global planning conference call meetings, provision of referral instructions, review and challenge of is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a related component inter-office reporting and of findings from their work which included the audit procedures performed to respond material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually to risks of material misstatement, attendance at component audit closing conference calls and regular interaction on any related or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these audit and accounting matters which arose.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: that there was no reasonable possibility of a risk of material misstatement in the aggregated financial information of the remaining www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, are set out below.
Other information Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The directors are responsible for the other information.
to report in respect We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design of these matters.
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form provide a basis for our opinion.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine enquiring of senior management, internal audit, members of the legal and compliance functions, and the audit committee, whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the group's policies and procedures relating to: information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
non-compliance: In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report as uncorrected material misstatements of detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the other information include where we conclude that: reviewing internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the discussing among the engagement team, including significant component audit teams, and involving relevant internal specialists, information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group's position and performance, business model including tax, valuations, and IT regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or indicators of fraud.
As part of these discussions, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately bespoke transactions which may be outside the normal course of business or have an unclear business rationale, may contain address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or unusual or complex terms, or may involve counterparties that are high-risk and or related parties: Directors' statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors' the complexity and magnitude of the group structure and the resulting risk that material transactions may be processed in statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the company's compliance with the UK Corporate components that are not scoped in for the Group audit or the allocation of profit and or costs between operating segments: Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate management override of controls, in particular in relation to certain significant accounting judgements and key sources of Governance Code.
estimation uncertainty within management's testing of impairment of non-current assets within the scope of IAS 36: and revenue transactions in marketing operations that occur close to period end and have a significant gross margin impact which contain complex terms and or may be reversed subsequent to period end.
obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the Companies Jersey Law 1991, Primary and Secondary Listing Rules, Disclosure and transparency rules on audit committees and corporate governance statements, the UK Corporate Governance code and related guidance, the FRC ethical standards, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, US Anti-Money Laundering regulations and the UK Bribery Act 2010.
In addition, compliance with the group's various operating licences, environmental regulations, and tax legislation in the jurisdictions in which it operates are fundamental to the group's ability to continue operating in those jurisdictions.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, Revenue Recognition and Impairments remain as key audit matters in relation to fraud risks.
The key audit matters section of our report explains these matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to these key audit matters.
In addition to the above and the procedures described in the relevant key audit matters section of our report, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the audit committee, in-house legal counsel and external legal counsel where applicable concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: 132 Glencore Annual Report 2018 Glen Gc le on re c o A rn en A u n anu l Rep al R oe rp t 2 o0 rt 2 18 018 133133 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc continued performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: performing focused analytical procedures on key financial metrics of non-significant components to identify any unusual or material transactions that may indicate a risk of material misstatement and evaluate the business rationale of such transactions: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with relevant regulatory and taxation authorities, where applicable: assessing the design and implementation of key controls within the compliance function at Group and at selected components to further our understanding of management's processes around the Group's compliance obligations and monitoring: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments, with a particular focus on profit and cost allocations: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members, including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on other matters prescribed by our engagement letter In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the company.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or of these matters.
proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 22 August 2011 to audit the financial statements of Glencore plc for the year ending 31 December 2011 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm as auditors of Glencore plc is 8 years, covering the years ending December 2011 to December 2018.
During this period, the Engagement Partner has rotated after the completion of the 2012 and 2017 audits.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Geoffrey Pinnock, CA SA for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Recognised Auditor London, UK 28 February 2019 1 134 34 G Gle len nc co orre e A An nnu nua al R l Rep epo orrt 2 t 20 0118 8
