STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC the notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 to 28 and to Report on the audit of the financial statements Principal risks and viability statement the parent company financial statements 1 to 19.
Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the We confirm that we have Opinion The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the nothing material to report, In our opinion: directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required add or draw attention to in preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: respect of these matters.
the financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc the parent framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company and its subsidiaries the group give a true and fair the disclosures on page 46-49 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or company financial statements is applicable law and United view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys mitigated: Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced affairs as at 30 June 2018 and of the groups profit for the year the directors confirmation on page 46 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted then ended: facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or Accounting Practice.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in liquidity: or accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the directors explanation on page 45 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what Basis for opinion IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the parent company financial statements have been properly liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing under those standards are further described in the auditors prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required our report.
Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with We are independent of the group and the parent company in the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our Key audit matters group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the current year and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical the consolidated income statement: These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We directing the efforts of the engagement team.
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity: These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we the consolidated and company balance sheets: do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient the consolidated cash flow statement: and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Franchise compliance and associated income under rail contracts the critical accounting judgements and key sources of In respect of the two train operating companies TOCs a franchise agreement details the arrangements Key audit matter estimation uncertainty: covering entitlement to revenue, certain costs and performance conditions.
Due to the complexity of the description arrangements there is a risk that the financial statements do not appropriately reflect the correct revenue and costs in terms of completeness, measurement and occurrence, and or income penalties that can arise based Summary of our audit approach on the actual performance of the individual TOC under the franchise agreement.
Revenue for the year-ended 30 Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: June 2018 totalled 2,527.3m 2017: 2,579.1m for the rail operating segment, as disclosed in note 3 of the consolidated financial statements.
This is noted in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of Franchise compliance and associated income under rail contracts estimation uncertainty note on page 134 of the Annual Report and in the key financial and internal control Govia Thameslink Railway GTR ongoing operational and financial challenges matters in the Audit Committee report on page 80 of the Annual Report.
Rail franchise, dilapidation and other provisions and accruals Due to the complexity of the franchise arrangements, and the level of management judgement involved, we Valuation of uninsured liabilities deemed this a potential fraud risk for our audit.
Valuation of pension scheme liabilities and related disclosures How the scope of our We have read the franchise agreements, understood their critical elements and assessed compliance with Revenue recognition for the bus division the franchise requirements.
We held meetings with each of the franchise compliance managers to assess audit responded to the Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with whether there were any new issues of non-compliance or expected non-compliance, and whether any key audit matter and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
franchise committed obligations would not be delivered.
The group materiality that we used in the current year was 6.0m 2017: 6.7m which was determined as 5% of Materiality We performed detailed testing of all significant assets, provisions and accruals, and associated revenue or pre-tax profit before exceptional items.
costs recognised to assess whether their recognition and quantum was appropriately stated.
We assessed whether there were any indicators that the assets or liabilities held should no longer be recognised due to the Full audit procedures were performed over 98% of the groups total assets, 99% of the groups revenue, and Scoping passage of time, changes in contractual commitments, or legal requirements.
95% of the groups profit before tax.
We assessed whether the provisions met the criteria for recognition under IAS 37 and whether they had been There have been no significant changes in our key audit matters, scoping or audit approach when compared to Significant changes appropriately classified.
in our approach We tested the schedules prepared by management to source information, evaluated whether they were compliant with the franchise agreements, and tested the calculations applied including recalculation where relevant.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement We held meetings with the Finance Directors and members of the finance teams to assess on a case by case Going concern basis the movements in the provisions and accruals, during the year under audit, and challenged We have reviewed the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered We confirm that we have management both on the recognition of new provisions and accruals, and also the continued recognition of it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any nothing material to report, long standing provisions and accruals.
material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve add or draw attention to in We reviewed relevant legal documentation, minutes of meetings held and correspondence with Department months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that We reviewed the accounts disclosures to assess whether they were appropriate.
statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our The results of our procedures were satisfactory.
We concurred with the judgements made and the resultant Key observations knowledge obtained in the audit.
accounting for all rail franchise contracts.
118 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 119 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED The results of our procedures were satisfactory and we concurred with the level of provisions and accruals held, Key observations Govia Thameslink Rail Ongoing operational and financial challenges which were supported by third party reports or alternative evidence.
This key audit matter relates to the judgements associated with franchise compliance at GTR and the Key audit matter completeness of any potential issues where revenue could be overstated or provisions accruals required.
This description relates to ongoing issues surrounding infrastructure replacement and also the impact of the disruption arising Valuation of uninsured liabilities from the May 2018 timetable change.
Consistent with the prior year there have been ongoing discussions with the Department for Transport DfT regarding a number of contractual variations relating to the points above This key audit matter relates to the valuation of insurance related provisions and in particular the completeness Key audit matter and other factors relating to the original contract.
Specifically, the Annual Report discloses a potential impact to of motor and other provisions relating to transport incidents.
Judgement was required in the assessment of the description profit of plus or minus 5m relating to ongoing discussions about service changes and rolling stock cascades in recognition criteria in each individual circumstance and the level of the provision held.
The calculation of the 2018 as part of the Thameslink Programme.
This is detailed on page 41 of the Annual Report.
self-insurance provision also required significant levels of management judgement regarding the level of provision required in respect of claims incurred but not reported IBNR based on historic trends.
Due to the This is noted in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty note on page 134 level of management judgement involved we deemed this a potential fraud risk for our audit.
and in the key financial and internal control matters noted on page 80 of the Annual Report.
The uninsured claims provision held in the group financial statements at 30 June 2018 was 45.3m 2017: Due to the complexity of the GTR franchise, the associated accounting, and the level of management judgement involved, we deemed this a potential fraud risk for our audit.
It is noted in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty note on page 134 and in the key financial and internal control matters in the Audit committee report How the scope of our We reviewed relevant legal documentation, minutes of meetings held and correspondence with DfT.
on page 80 of the Annual Report.
We gained an understanding of each significant accrual and provision, the basis of estimation and the range audit responded to the How the scope of our We gained an understanding of the groups obligations under its insurance policies with relevant members of of possible outcomes, discussed with the GTR Finance Director and relevant members of the finance, key audit matter the finance team and reviewed policy documentation to confirm these.
operations franchise compliance and infrastructure management teams.
We have corroborated the existence audit responded to the We gained a detailed understanding of the methodology used to calculate the claims incurred liabilities, and quantum of each obligation to supporting documentation, have considered alternative evidence to the key audit matter extent that it exists, and re-performed managements calculations.
including the judgements made by managements experts.
Where management have relied on the judgement of an expert, we have assessed the experience, qualifications and knowledge of that expert.
We assessed whether the provisions met the criteria for recognition under IAS 37 and whether they had been We assessed the completeness of the detailed claims reports received and reconciled these to the provisions appropriately classified.
We have read the franchise agreement, understood its critical elements and verified that the revenue We gained a detailed understanding of the approach used to determine the provision for claims incurred but recognised is in accordance with the franchise requirements.
We assessed the impact of amendments to the not reported and tested this provision against historical trends.
We reviewed group and subsidiary Board minutes, Board papers and held discussions with management to We challenged managements rationale for not recognising the GTR franchise as an onerous contract.
identify any significant matters which should have been considered when creating the IBNR provision and to We reviewed the disclosure of the estimation risk in the judgements surrounding the GTR contract in the identify any inconsistencies between the minutes and our understanding from the review of provisions Annual Report page 41 to assess whether they were appropriate.
We concurred with managements judgements and accounting treatment relating to the liabilities associated Key observations We assessed the self-insurance provision to settled claims for incidents which arose prior to the balance with the GTR franchise.
sheet date including those for incidents incurred but not reported for completeness and accuracy through We concluded that the assumptions used by management in not recognising the GTR contract as onerous were discussions held with the finance team and a review and testing of third party reports.
comparison of prior year provisions against actual claims paid to assess the historic accuracy of the provision.
We concurred with the disclosure of the high level of estimation risk in the judgements surrounding the GTR The results of our procedures were satisfactory and we concurred with the level of provisions held.
We note that Key observations contract in the Annual Report.
the element of the provision which relates to incurred but not reported claims is conservatively derived but within an acceptable range.
This element totals 9.7m 2017: 7.7m of the 45.3m 2017: 44.3m total We concurred with the disclosure of the contractual position of the GTR franchise following the implementation self-insurance provision.
of a revised timetable in May in the Annual Report.
This is detailed in page 41 of the Annual Report.
Valuation of pension scheme liabilities and related disclosures Rail franchise, dilapidation and other provisions and accruals Key audit matter Given the size of the group, managing the pension liabilities is complex and significant judgement is required in Key audit matter This key audit matter relates to the valuation of contractual and property related liabilities, in particular third determining the value of the liabilities provided as set out in the critical accounting judgements and key sources description party claims: and dilapidation provisions relating to rolling stock, depots and stations see note 24 of the description of estimation uncertainty note on page 134.
The significant judgements made relate to the assumptions financial statements.
Franchise commitments total 51.9m as at 30 June 2018 2017: 53.0m.
underpinning the calculation of the groups defined benefit pension liability and also relate to the accounting This is noted in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty note on page 134 treatment for the Rail Pension Scheme.
and in the key financial and internal control matters in the Audit Committee report on page 80 of the Annual The liabilities of the schemes are highly sensitive to any changes in long-term assumptions year on year which Report.
Due to the level of management judgement involved, we deemed this a potential fraud risk for our audit.
could materially impact the groups balance sheet position.
How the scope of our We gained an understanding of each significant accrual or provision and the basis of estimate with the Finance Director and relevant members of the finance team, and assessed this in-line with the franchise The values and associated disclosures are set out in note 27 and also discussed in the key financial and internal audit responded to the control matters in the Audit Committee report on page 80 of the Annual Report.
key audit matter We involved our actuarial experts to assess whether the values used by managements actuaries for key We have corroborated amounts to supporting documentation and evidence for the valuation and existence of How the scope of our the obligation, and have considered alternative evidence to the extent that it exists.
We have re-performed assumptions at the year-end are within Deloittes acceptable range with a focus on estimations of future audit responded to the changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and deferred members and the selection of a suitable managements calculations to assess the quantum of the obligation outstanding at year-end.
key audit matter discount rate.
We assessed whether the provisions met the criteria for recognition per IAS 37 and whether they have been appropriately classified as provisions or as an accrual depending on the level of uncertainty of the liability as We involved our actuarial experts to assess the appropriateness of the methodology used by managements in certain cases the amount to be paid can become known.
actuaries to calculate the liabilities for the pension schemes.
We assessed whether the third parties used to estimate relevant valuations have the appropriate experience, We reviewed the membership data for the Go-Ahead Pension Plan utilised by the actuaries to calculate the qualifications and knowledge of the business, and agreed the findings from their surveys into the provision.
liabilities for the pension scheme.
We reviewed the accounting treatment of the Railway Pension Scheme for compliance with the groups We reviewed relevant legal documentation and correspondence with Network Rail in respect of ongoing disputes.
Where management have relied on an estimate by a legal advisor we have assessed the experience, accounting policy and IFRS.
qualifications and knowledge of that legal advisor.
We assessed the pension disclosures in the financial statements and considered their compliance with the requirements of IAS 19 revised.
120 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 121 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED An overview of the scope of our audit We are satisfied that the assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the scheme liabilities are Key observations appropriate.
These assumptions fall within the middle of our acceptable range.
Our group audit scope was determined after obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit We concur with the recognition of a pre-tax, non-cash exceptional credit of 35.2m in the income statement as a scope primarily on the audit work at 12 principal locations including all the UK rail businesses which were subject to a full audit.
The result of the change from RPI to CPI.
locations in scope represent the principal business units and account for 98% of the groups total assets, 99% of the groups revenue and We consider the disclosure around the sensitivity analysis to be appropriate and consistent with our work 95% of the groups profit before tax, with the bus businesses out of scope contributing an immaterial loss.
The locations were selected to performed as per Note 27 of the Annual Report.
provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the principal locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality Revenue recognition for the bus division and within the range disclosed above.
Key audit matter In the bus division the key audit matter over revenue recognition has been focused on whether recognising At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that revenue in relation to concessionary fare income, contract sales and most significantly Quality Incentive description there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not Contract premiums QIC in London Bus is appropriate.
Judgement is involved in determining QIC revenue subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
which is based on performance measures associated with the contract.
Revenue for the year ended 30 June 2018 totalled 934.2m 2017:902.0m for the bus operating segment see segmental analysis Note 3 of the The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that either the Senior Statutory Annual Report.
Due to the management judgement involved in determining QIC revenue we deemed this a Auditor or a senior member of the group audit team visits each of the locations where the group audit scope was focused at least once potential fraud risk for our audit.
every year and the most significant of them at least twice a year.
We gained an in-depth understanding of the process undertaken to recognise revenue in the bus businesses How the scope of our with the finance team assessing this was in-line with external contracts in place.
audit responded to the Other information We performed detailed testing to supporting documentation of the key revenue balances at each bus business key audit matter The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the We have nothing to report in within our audit scope including assessing the judgements associated with the Quality Incentive Contract information included in the Annual Report including the Strategic report on pages 1-49, the Governance respect of these matters.
premium income recognised in London Bus.
section on pages 50-115, and the shareholder information on pages 199-204 other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Key observations We are satisfied that the recognition of revenue in the bus division is appropriate.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Our application of materiality If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there and in evaluating the results of our work.
is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the Materiality 6.0m 2017: 6.7m 2.4m 2017: 3.3m Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and Basis for determining 5% of pre-tax profit 2017: 5% before exceptional Determined based on 3% equity but capped at 40% provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, items.
Exceptional items have been defined in the of group materiality materiality business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or critical accounting judgements and key sources of Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not estimation uncertainty of the Annual Report.
appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Pre-tax profit was selected as the appropriate Equity has been selected as an appropriate measure Rationale for the Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the measure on which to calculate materiality as it is on which to calculate materiality as the Parent benchmark applied directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the considered an area of focus for the users of the company is a Holding company.
UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance accounts.
We excluded exceptional items from with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK pre-tax profit so that the basis remained consistent Corporate Governance Code.
with underlying profit and hence prior year.
PBT pre-exceptional Responsibilities of directors 123.2m Group materiality 6.0m As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to Component materiality range 4.4m to 2.6m continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting 7.1% unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.3m PBT pre-exceptional Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.3m 2017: 0.3m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
122 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 123 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE GO-AHEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material and regulations throughout the audit.
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a highlevel of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material Report on other legal and regulatory requirements misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 statements.
In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
uk In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: .
This description forms part of our auditors report.
the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in and regulations, our procedures included the following: respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or enquiring of management, enquiring of and reviewing the reports of internal audit and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the groups policies and procedures relating to: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: returns.
the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations Directors remuneration discussing among the engagement team including significant component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, financial instrument specialists, and pensions specialists how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures We have nothing to report in and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the judgemental areas of key of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report respect of these matters.
management judgements to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the group.
The key laws and Other matters regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, pensions legislation and tax legislation.
In Auditor tenure addition, we consider the terms of the groups schedules of the franchise agreements for the train operating companies, as noncompliance could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Companys members at its annual general meeting on 22 October 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 2 July 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
Our total Audit response to risks identified uninterrupted period of engagement is 3 years, covering periods from our appointment through to the period ending 30 June 2018.
As a result of performing the above, we identified the following key audit matters: Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Franchise compliance and associated income under rail contracts Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Govia Thameslink Railway GTR ongoing operational and financial challenges Rail franchise, dilapidation and other provisions and accruals Use of our report Valuation of uninsured liabilities This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Revenue recognition for the bus division audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone in response to those key audit matters.
other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the audit committee and in-house external legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement Christopher Powell, FCA Senior statutory auditor due to fraud: for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with Statutory Auditor Department for Transport and HMRC: and London, United Kingdom in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and 5 September 2018 evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
124 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
