Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GRAINGER PLC ONLY 1.
Our opinion is unmodified have audited the financial statements of Grainger plc the Company for the year ended 30 September 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Parent Company Statement of Financial Position and the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 6 February 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the four financial years ended 30 September 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: Group financial statements as a whole 18.0m 2017: 16.0m 1% 2017: 1% of total assets Coverage 100% 2017: 100% of Group total assets Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 Recurring risks Valuation of investment properties Recoverability of inventories 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, unchanged from 2017, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GRAINGER PLC ONLY CONTINUED The risk Our response Our procedures in respect of all property types identified included: Valuation of Subjective valuation investment The valuation approach adopted by the Methodologies and key assumptions: sought assistance from our properties Directors varies between portfolios: own property valuation specialists to assess the methodologies and 589.7m: 2017: For properties let into the private rental key assumptions used in the valuations adopted by the Directors for 391.0m market and the majority of affordable use in the financial statements: and Refer to page 51 Audit housing properties, valuation is derived by Sensitivity analysis: performing sensitivity analyses over the Committee Report, applying a gross initial yield to the estimated assumptions and considering the outcomes with reference to pages 96 to 100 rental value of the property.
Yield is based benchmarks to identify the key assumptions affecting the valuation.
critical accounting on market evidence and an inherently Our additional procedures in respect of the private rented sector estimates and unobservable judgement in respect of rental properties and affordable housing properties included: judgements, page 113 growth.
There is a risk that applying an accounting policy and inappropriate yield could lead to a material Yield rates: assessed the yield rates applied using our financial disclosures.
understanding of the nature of the assets and comparing to Property held in residential portfolios is available market data.
valued by determining vacant possession Our additional procedures in respect of property held in UK residential VP value and applying a discount to portfolios included: reflect the fact that the property is tenanted.
Both VP value and the discount applied are Control design: assessed the design of the Directors valuation estimated with reference to comparable process and observed that supporting evidence for a sample of market evidence and the Groups own properties: experience, which in some cases may be Attended Group valuation meetings as observers: attended, as limited.
This means that the valuation is observers, the Groups regional valuation meetings with their inherently subjective and susceptible to external valuer, and observed the degree of challenge by the misstatement.
external valuer to valuation inputs and the evidence presented by For the Tricomm portfolio, valuation is based management: and on a discounted cash flow model produced Comparing valuations: challenged the inputs used in the by an external valuer.
There is a risk that the valuations and compared to com parable transactions.
assumptions of house price inflation HPI Our additional procedures in respect of the Tricomm portfolio and discount rates could be inappropriate included: which could lead to a material misstatement in valuation: Benchmarking assumptions: comparing the HPI assumption included in the discounted cash flow model to market indices and the discount rates to market information including gilts and benchmarked risk premiums.
Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of fair values to changes in key assumptions reflected the uncertainties inherent in the property valuations.
Data integrity: We assessed the completeness and accuracy of the property information provided by the Group to the external valuers by agreeing key inputs, such as address, rental income, occupancy and current tenancy details to property contracts on a sample basis.
Our results We found the valuation of investment properties to be acceptable.
82 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information The risk Our response Recoverability Subjective valuation: In addition to the procedures set out in respect of UK residential of inventories Inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net portfolio investment properties, our procedures for residential trading properties realisable value NRV.
The Directors properties included: Inventories trading assessment of NRV of inventory differs Historical comparisons: Comparing the year end valuation with the properties: 799.3m: between residential properties and sales prices achieved for property sales after the year end date: 2017: 841.3m developments: For development trading properties our procedures included: Refer to page 51 Audit For residential trading property NRV is based on vacant possession VP value Benchmarking assumptions: challenging the key assumptions in Committee Report, which is estimated with reference to com the Groups plans and forecasts using third party data and the pages 96 to 100 parable market evidence and the Groups Groups historic experience of costs and revenues: critical accounting own experience, which in some cases may be Sensitivity analysis: performing sensitivity analyses on estimated estimates and limited.
This means that the VP valuation is future costs and sales prices to assess the headroom before an judgements, page 118 inherently subjective and susceptible to adjustment to the carrying value is required: and accounting policy and misstatement.
Comparing valuations: where the intention is to sell without financial disclosures.
For development trading property where the further development, comparing the carrying value of inventory to intention is to develop further prior to sale, the market value of the site in its current condition as determined NRV is the forecast selling price less the by the Groups external valuer.
remaining costs to complete and sell.
There Our results is a risk that the total forecast profits on a We found the carrying value of residential and development trading development may be overestimated and an properties to be acceptable.
impairment may not be recorded.
This risk is highest for developments where the current carrying value exceeds the current market value.
Our procedures included : Recoverability of Subjective valuation: parent companys The carrying amount of the parent companys Tests of detail: comparing the carrying amount of 100% of investment in investments in subsidiaries represents 87.2% investments with the relevant subsidiaries prior year financial subsidiaries 2017: 92.3% of the Companys total assets.
statements and current year draft balance sheets to identify 846.1m: 2017: Their recoverability is not at a high risk of whether their net assets, being an approximation of their 899.6m significant misstatement or subject to recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying amount.
However, due to their Refer to page 51 Audit materiality in the context of the parent Our results Committee Report, company financial statements, this is We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the page 142 accounting considered to be the area that had the greatest investments in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
policy and page 143 effect on our overall parent company audit.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GRAINGER PLC ONLY CONTINUED Group total assets Group materiality 1,890.2m 2017: 1,767.0m 18.0m 2017: 16.0m 18.0m Group total assets 1,890.2m Whole financial Group materiality 18.0m statements materiality 2017: 16.0m 0.54m Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee 2017: 0.48m 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 18.0m 2017: 16.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group total assets of which it represents approximately 1% 2017: 1%.
In addition, we applied lower materiality of 3.4m 2017: 3.0m to specific income statement accounts, namely net rental income, profit on disposal of trading properties, administrative expenses, fees and other income, other expenses, income from financial interest in property assets, finance costs, finance income, share of profit of associates and share of profit of joint ventures.
This has been calculated as 5% of Adjusted Earnings being profit before tax, valuation movements and other adjustments for one-off items as set out in note 4.
We believe misstatement of these specific income statement item s of a lesser amount than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could reasonably be expected to influence the Companys m embers assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 15.0m 2017: 16.0m determined with reference to a benchmark of company net assets, of which it represented approximately 3% 2017: 5%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.54m 2017: 0.48m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using the materiality levels set out above and covered 100% of Group revenue, Group profit before tax and Group total assets 2017: 100% of Group revenue, Group profit before tax and Group total assets.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 37 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
84 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on page 37 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the Viability Statements of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GRAINGER PLC ONLY CONTINUED 7.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 77, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation, and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of regulations applicable to landlords and health and safety recognising the nature of the groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible noncompliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Bill Holland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5GL 13 November 2018 86 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
