170 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Great Portland Estates Plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Great Portland Estates plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and parent company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the Group and parent Statements of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 26 for the Group financial statements and i to viii for the parent company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Valuation of the property portfolio: and Accounting for acquisitions and disposals.
Last year our report included one other key audit matter which is not included in our report this year, being Revenue Recognition.
The reasoning for the exclusion of the key audit matter isdetailedbelow in our key audit matters section.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 30 million which was determined on the basis of c. 1% of Net Asset Value NAV.
Scoping Each subsidiary and joint venture entity is treated as a separate component for the audit.
TheGroup team perform full scope audits for all of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures whichare subject to audit.
Those entities not subject to an underlying statutory audit are reviewedbased on Group materiality.
Significant changes There has been no other significant change in the Groups operations and therefore other than in our approach thechange in audit matters as mentioned above there are no required changes to our approach.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 171 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in note 1 to the financial We confirm that we statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt have nothing material the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their to report, add or draw identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and parent attention to in respect companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least ofthesematters.
12months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with ourknowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering We confirm that we viability statement whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the have nothing material course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation to report, add or draw of the directors assessment of the Groups and the parent companys attention to in respect ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether ofthesematters.
we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 72 to 81 that describe the principal risks andexplain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 68 that they have carried out arobust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 136 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications orassumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In the prior year our report included one other key audit matter, in relation to revenue recognition, which is not included this year.
Revenue for the Group consists primarily of rental income, where there is a standard process in place for recording revenue based on tenancy agreements.
Complexities in revenue recognition may arise due to adjustments made to revenue for lease incentives and the recognition of surrender premia.
In the current year there have been no material surrender premia and the level of lease incentives has continued to decrease, therefore we no longer consider revenue recognition to be a key audit matter.
Financial statements 172 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report continued Valuation of property portfolio Key audit The Group owns a portfolio of property assets in central London.
The portfolio is valued matter description at2,790.0 million 2017: 3,145.5 million, including share of joint venture properties, as at 31March 2018.
The valuation of the portfolio is an area of significant judgement and includes a number of assumptions including capitalisation yields and future rental values.
There is also a potential forfraud relating to the level of estimation required in determining the valuation.
The level of development activity remains high and therefore continues to be an area of specific focus for our audit due to the judgements required in assessing the value of development properties, such as forecast costs to complete, the level of developers profit, financing costs andERVs.
Please see critical judgements and accounting policy at pages 146 and 148, notes 10 and 12 tothefinancial statements and discussion in the report of the Audit Committee on page 102.
How the scope of We assessed the design and implementation of controls relating to the valuation process.
our audit responded We assessed and discussed managements process for reviewing and challenging the work tothe keyaudit matter of theexternal valuer.
We also assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the external valuer.
We obtained the external valuation reports and met with the external valuer to discuss the results of their work on a sample of properties.
With the assistance of an expert member of theaudit team, who is a chartered surveyor, we discussed and challenged the valuation process, performance of the portfolio and significant judgements and assumptions applied in their valuation model, including yields, occupancy rates, lease incentives and break clauses.
Our challenge included benchmarking the key assumptions to external market data and comparable property transactions, in particular the yield.
We tested the integrity of a sample of the data provided to the external valuer.
This included verifying a sample of information provided to the external valuer to underlying lease agreements, and verifying costs to complete.
We assessed the Groups development appraisal process through meeting with project managers, testing managements process to forecast costs to complete and inspecting commitments of key developments.
Key observations We conclude that the assumptions used in the valuations are supportable in light of available andcomparable market evidence.
Accounting for acquisitions and disposals Key audit The Group has undertaken a number of acquisitions and disposals during the year including: matter description i the acquisition of the freehold interest in Challenger House and Cityside House for a combined consideration of 49.5 million: ii the disposal of 30 Broadwick Street for 185.9 million: and iii the disposal of 240 Blackfriars Road from the Joint Venture for a total of 226.5 million.
Theseare significant due to the individual nature, size, cash flows involved and the related specific .
The Group recognise acquisitions and disposals when the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred, typically on completion.
Depending on the specific terms of the transactions this can involve a high level ofjudgement in assessing the point at which the transaction should be accounted for.
Please see accounting policy at page 148 and notes 10, 11 and 12 to the financial statements.
How the scope of For each transaction, we understood the nature of the transaction and assessed the proposed ourauditresponded accounting treatment in relation to the Groups accounting policies.
tothe keyaudit matter We confirmed key transaction terms to sale and purchase agreements for all significant acquisitions and disposals in the year, assessing whether they were appropriately recognised in the period based upon the risks and rewards of ownership and properly disclosed in the financial statements.
Related costs and cash receipts have been verified to supporting evidence on asample basis.
Key observations We found that the acquisitions and disposals during the year were properly accounted for anddisclosed.
We found no material issues as a result of our procedures.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 173 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 30.0 million 2017: 31.0 million 18.4 million 2017: 25.3 million Basis for We determined materiality for the Group We determined materiality for the parent company determining to be 30million 2017: 31 million, tobe 18.4 million 2017: 25.3 million, which is materiality which is approximately1% of NAV 3%ofNAV 2017: 3% of NAV.
Rationale for We consider net assets to be a critical We consider net assets to be a critical financial thebenchmark financial performance measure for the Group performance measure for the Group on the basis that applied on the basis that it is a key metric used by the parent company holds all the investments therefore management, investors, analysts and lenders.
making the Balance Sheet the relevant primary statement for Management and lenders.
In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA Profit Before Tax to be a critical financial performance measure for the Group and we applied a lower threshold of 3.0 million 2017: 2.8 million based on 5% 2017: 5% of that measure for testing of all balances impacting this financial performance measure.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1 million 2017: 1 million for the Group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group is audited by one audit team, led by the SeniorStatutory Auditor.
The audit is performed centrally, as the books and records for each entity within the Group are maintained at head office.
We also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were nosignificant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information.
We perform full scope audits for all of the Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures which are subject to audit at statutory materiality level which is lower than Group materiality, these materiality levels range from 3k to 27 million.
Those entities not subject to an underlying statutory audit are reviewed based on Group materiality.
This comprises 99% 2017: 99% oftheGroups revenue and 100% 2017: 100% of net assets.
Financial statements 174 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report continued Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the We have nothing information included in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors toreport in respect report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information ismaterially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of thisother information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where weconclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model andstrategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee doesnot appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether dueto fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys abilityto continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, orhave no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect amaterial misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually orin the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis ofthese financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Annual Report 2018 Great Portland Estates 175 Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with theCompanies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the parent company and their environment obtained inthe course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing toreport inrespect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequatefor our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting recordsandreturns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing toreport inrespect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain of these matters.
disclosuresof directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Shareholders on 15 July 2003 to audit thefinancial statements for the year ending 31 March 2004 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 15 years, covering the years ending 31 March 2004 to 31 March 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Richard Muschamp, FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 23 May 2018 Financial statements
