FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report To the members of Greene King plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: Greene King plcs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 29 April 2018 and of the groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Greene King plc which comprise: Group Company Group balance sheet as at 29 April 2018 Company balance sheet as at 29 April 2018 Company statement of changes in equity for the 52 weeksended Group income statement for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018 29April2018 Group statement of comprehensive income for the 52 weeksended Related notes 32 to 42 to the financial statements including a summary 29April2018 ofsignificant accounting policies Group statement of changes in equity for the 52 weeksended 29April2018 Group cash flow statement for the 52 weeksended 29April2018 Related notes 1 to 31 to the financial statements, including a summary ofsignificant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework UnitedKingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under thosestandards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the group and company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 33 to 37 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 32 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing theentity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on pages 73 to 74 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period ofat least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 32 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
76 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Capital expenditure accounting, due to the risk of material overstatement of the fixed asset base through inappropriate capitalisation of non-capital costs.
Property, plant and equipment PP&E impairment considerations, due to the risk of material misstatement over the net impairment charge if managements assumptions to support the projected financial information in the impairment assessments include incorrect judgments or estimates.
Revenue recognition, due to the risk of fraudulent recognition of revenue through management override.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the three trading divisions and corporate centre which together represent 100% of the groups results for the period.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the group which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks ofmaterial misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
In a change in audit strategy from the prior period, we have adopted a controls-based approach for certain elements oftherevenuetocash, purchasetopay and inventory count processes.
Materiality Overall group materiality of 12.1m, which represents 5% of profit before tax and exceptional and non-underlying items.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated totheaudit Risk Our response to the risk andriskcommittee We verified the appropriateness of the groups As a result of the procedures performed, we Capital expenditure accounting, due to capital expenditure accounting principally identified a net undercapitalisation based on an the risk of material overstatement of the through but not limited to the following extrapolation of the error in the sample tested.
fixed asset base through inappropriate keyprocedures: This is not material and we conclude that PP&E capitalisation of non-capital costs additions have been recognised in accordance We have walked through the revised capital 2018: 192.4m of additions inthe withIAS 16. expenditure process and assessed the design period: 2017: 186.9m of key controls, including an assessment of the Refer to the audit and risk committee report pages 55 design effectiveness of the revised process and to 57 : accounting policies pages 88 to 94 : and controls implemented by management.
note 14 of the consolidated financial statements We disaggregated the PP&E additions pages 107 to 109 population by purchase order type and by Costs capitalised in the year are material.
value in order to identify homogenous subsets Ourtesting of additions for PP&E in the prior exhibiting the same risk characteristics.
year identified items being capitalised that were non-capital in nature.
We performed an analysis of additions by type and value of orders to identify changes in the To address prior year issues identified regarding composition in comparison with the prior year.
capitalisation of non-capital items, management From the sub-populations identified we selected has revised its processes and controls intheperiod.
both key item and representative samples.
We tested and validated the appropriateness We have identified capital expenditure of capitalisation of items against the recognition accounting as a significant risk through requirements of IAS16.
The identified sample error rates were extrapolated over the homogenous subpopulations to estimate the overall error, which was not significant.
For our sample we reviewed the useful economic lives and residual values against an expectation based on historic actual useful economic lives.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued To the members of Greene King plc Key audit matters continued Key observations communicated totheaudit Risk Our response to the risk andriskcommittee We obtained an understanding of the groups We considered the reasonableness and Property, plant and equipment PP&E process employed to estimate appropriate appropriateness of the groups estimates, noting impairment considerations, due to the impairments of PP&E at a cash-generating unit that all significant assumptions fell within a range risk of material misstatement over the CGU level site level.
We then tested key ofacceptable outcomes.
netimpairment charge if managements elements of those processes.
We considered the groups sensitivity calculations assumptions to support the projected In particular: applied to the cash flows to be materially correct financial information in the impairment and the disclosures ofareasonable change to assessments include incorrect judgments We checked the arithmetical accuracy beappropriate.
andintegrity of the impairment model.
or estimates 2018: 3,589.2m PP&E We found no material errors within the site data net book value and 63.3m net We used our valuation experts to assess the used in the impairment calculations.
impairment charge: 2017: 3,621.9m reasonableness of the discount rate applied to cash flows by benchmarking to comparator We considered the property valuations provided and 58.6m respectively companies and market information.
by managements external valuer to fall within a Refer to the audit and risk committee report pages 55 range of acceptable valuations.
to 57 : accounting policies pages 88 to 94 : and We compared the profit growth rates in the note 14 of the consolidated financial statements cash flow forecasts to the strategic plan and We considered the property valuations provided pages 107 to 109 to external market growth estimates for by managements internal valuers tofall within a theindustry.
Management performs an annual impairment assessment on a site-by-site basis.
We reperformed the groups sensitivity We considered the other information used by calculations applied to the cash flows and management to determine VIU or FVLCD In assessing impairment, management estimates considered the groups disclosure of how a inthecalculation ofthe impairment charge the recoverable amount of each site by reference reasonably possible change in assumptions tobeappropriate.
to the higher of its value in use VIU, based on would lead to a material impairment based the groups key assumptions in relation to forecast As a result of the procedures performed, we upon our knowledge of the groups activities profits, growth rate and applied discount rate, concluded that the groups impairment assessment and industry knowledge.
and fair value lesscosts of disposal FVLCD.
for the groups CGUs had been carried out FVLCD wasdetermined by either external We verified that the individual site NBVs, appropriately and inaccordance with orinternalvaluations.
lease periods where applicable and trading accountingstandards.
data were correctly imported into the We found that the impairment charge had a net impairment model.
understatement error that was not significant.
We used our property valuation experts Wedo not consider the error tobe material and toassess the property valuations provided therefore we concluded that the impairment bymanagements external valuer, where calculations are appropriate andfree from management adopted the valuers FVLCD materialerror.
instead of the internal VIU model.
Our testing also included the inputs into the external valuations.
We used our property valuation experts to assess the property valuations provided by managements internal valuers, where management adopted the valuers FVLCD instead of the internal VIU model.
We examined the appropriateness of any other information used by management to refine the VIU or FVLCD in the calculation ofthe impairment charge.
78 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matters continued Key observations communicated totheaudit Risk Our response to the risk andriskcommittee We have walked through each significant As a result of the procedures performed, we Revenue recognition, due to the risk revenue stream and assessed the design, and conclude that revenue has been recognised offraudulent recognition of revenue tested the operating effectiveness of key inaccordance with the revenue recognition policy through management override controls.
In addition we have performed the and accountingstandards.
2018:2,176.7m:2017: 2,216.5m following procedures: Refer to the audit and risk committee report pages 55 We completed tests of detail on a to 57 : accounting policies pages 88 to 94 : and representative sample of revenue transactions note 3 of the consolidated financial statements recorded in the period.
page 96 We performed disaggregated analytical review In accordance with International Standards on on revenue recorded by division and month Auditing UK and Ireland there is a presumed toidentify unusual or unexpected trends.
fraud risk relating to revenue recognition.
We tested manual journal entries to revenue Revenue principally consists of: from across the year to ensure that entries drink, food and accommodation sales, which were appropriately supported by evidence of are recognised at the point at which goods or arrangement, delivery note or subsequent services are provided: cash receipt.
rental income, which is recognised on a We tested transactions before and after 29April to verify proper revenue cutoff.
straight-line basis over the lease term: and Suchtesting included obtaining an enforceable machine income, where net takings are agreement and evidence of delivery.
Greene King Pub Partners and Pub Company divisions, given their high disaggregation with approximately 3,000 individual pubs and low value individual sale transactions, have a low inherent risk of material error or fraud occurring undetected.
Similarly with strong revenue to cash correlation any systemic errors of significance would quickly be visible in balance sheet reconciliations.
Therefore the risk of material error in revenue recognition isprincipally seen to reside in a topside management journal overriding financial reporting close processes.
We have identified a significant risk of material overstatement of revenue through management override and topside journals for all divisions.
In the prior year, our auditors report included key audit matters in relation to accounting for supplier income and customer rebates, impairment ofgoodwill, and uncertain tax positions and stamp duty land tax.
Taking each matter in order: Accounting for supplier income and customer rebates: Based on our experience and results of our audit in the prior year, we noted that the amounts of rebates are not significant, the estimation of the rebates at year end is not highly complex and nor do they require significant judgment.
We therefore do not consider the risk of material error to be significant, and is therefore no longer considered a significant risk or key audit matter inthe current year.
Impairment of goodwill: Based on prior year audit and interim planning procedures and the level of fair value headroom above the carrying value of goodwill as presented in note 13 of the financial statements, we consider the risk of impairment in goodwill does not give rise to a significant risk and is not considered a key audit matter in the current period.
Uncertain tax positions and stamp duty land tax: During the prior period a formal agreement was reached with HMRC on a number ofhistorical tax positions and the Court of Appeal issued its final decision on the Sussex case.
In addition the stamp duty land tax matter was also concluded with HMRC in the current period.
There are no remaining historical open items with HMRC of significance: therefore there is no longer a risk of material misstatement in the financial statements for the current period.
Accordingly, uncertain tax positions and stamp duty land tax are not considered key audit matters in the current period.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued To the members of Greene King plc An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each division.
The groups operations are based solely in the United Kingdom and therefore all audit procedures are completed by one audit team based in the head office location working across both the group and subsidiary financial statement audits.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of all of the trading divisions and the corporate centre which together represent 100% of the groups results for the year.
We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the group which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the group to be 12.1m 2017: 13.7m, which is 5% 2017: 5% of profit before tax and exceptional and non-underlying items.
We used pre-tax profit before exceptional and non-underlying items of 243.0m because it is a key performance indicator used in communications with investors, it is a key metric used by the group in the assessment of the performance of management and we note that market and analyst commentary on the group uses pre-tax profit before exceptional and non-underlying items as a key metric.
Therefore, we consider pre-tax profit before exceptional and non-underlying items to be the most appropriate performance metric on which to base our materiality calculation.
We determined materiality for the company to be 13.9m 2017: 13.8m, which is 1% 2017: 1% of net assets, a measure chosen due to the nature ofthe companys business activity, which is that of investment holding.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability thatthe aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the groups overall control environment, our judgment was that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 9.0m 2017: 10.3m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage reflecting the absence of significant changes in the group and absence of significant audit adjustments in the prior period.
Our objective in considering and adopting this approach was to ensure that the total of any detected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our materiality of 12.1m for the group financial statements as a whole.
Audit work on each division for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each division is based on the relative scale and risk of the division to the group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that division.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to divisions was 2.3m to 8.0m 2017: 2.7m to 8.1m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the audit and risk committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.6m 2017: 0.7m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 1 to 75 and 128 to 132, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
80 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other information continued In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 75 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or audit and risk committee reporting set out on pages 55 to 57 the section describing the work of the audit and risk committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit and risk committee: or directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 50 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and those reports have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: the information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and information about the companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in: the strategic report or the directors report: or the information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 75, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Annual report 2018 GREENE KING PLC 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued To the members of Greene King plc Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: toobtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for theprevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined that the most significant relate to the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 101, the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, andthose laws and regulations as disclosed within risk and uncertainties of the groups business on pages 32 to 37 including The Pubs Code etc.
Regulations 2016, Health & Safety Regulations, the General Data Protection Regulation, and Licensing Regulations.
We understood how Greene King plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the group company secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through the attendance at meetings held by the audit and risk committee, which receives updates on such matters from divisional and functional management.
As well as enquiry and attendance at meetings, our procedures involved a review of the reporting to the committees and a review of board meetings and other committee minutes to identify any non-compliance with laws and regulations.
We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by meeting with management to understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their propensity to influence management to manage earnings and revenue by overriding internal controls.
We considered the controls that the group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud, and how senior management monitors those controls.
Our procedures also included testing a risk-based sample of manual journals that may have been posted with the intention of overriding internal controls to manipulate earnings.
These procedures were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were re-appointed by the shareholders at the annual general meeting on 8 September 2017 and signed an engagement letter with the company on 28 November 2017 confirming the terms of appointment for the audit of the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2018.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and re-appointments is 20 years, covering the periods ending 2 May 1998 to 29 April 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the company and we remain independent of the group and the company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit and risk committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Lloyd Brown Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London, UK 27 June 2018 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Greene King plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
82 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2018
