GREENCOAT U K W I N D Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Greencoat UK Wind PLC Opinion We have audited the financial statements of Greencoat UK Wind Plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the consolidated and parent company Statement of Financial Position, the consolidated and parent company Statement of Changes in Equity, the consolidated and parent company Statement of Cash Flows and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 5 to 7 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors conrmation set out on page 8 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on pages 7 and 8 in the financial statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identication of any material uncertainties to the Group and the parent companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement relating to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 8 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
39 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signicance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identied.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The valuation of investments in the underlying wind farm portfolio was the risk that had the greatest impact on our audit strategy and scope, including the allocation of resources in the audit.
Risk description How our audit addressed the risk The valuation of In respect of the equity investments valued using discounted cash ow models, we investments is a highly performed the following specic procedures: subjective accounting Used spreadsheet analysis tools to assess the integrity of the valuation models and estimate where there is track changes to inputs or structure an inherent risk of management override Agreed wind generation and power price forecasts to independent reports arising from the For new investments we obtained and reviewed all key agreements and contracts investment valuations and considered whether these were accurately reected in the valuation model being prepared by the For existing investments we analysed changes in significant assumptions compared Investment Manager, with assumptions audited in previous periods and vouched these to independent who is remunerated evidence including available industry data based on the net asset value of the Company.
Challenged the appropriateness of the selection and application of key assumptions in the model including the discount factor, ination, asset life, energy yield and 100 per cent.
of the power price applied by benchmarking to available industry data and consulting underlying investment with our internal valuations specialists portfolio is represented by unquoted equity and Reviewed the corporation tax workings within the valuation model loan investments and all Agreed cash and other net assets to bank statements and investee company investments are management accounts individually material to the financial statements.
Considered the accuracy of forecasting by comparing previous forecasts to actual results Reviewed the outcome of purchase price true-ups that have taken place in the year and confirmed that these have been accurately reected in the models.
For loan investments we performed the following: Vouched to loan agreements and veried the terms of the loan Considered wider economic and commercial factors that, in our opinion could impact on the recoverability and fair value of the loan Considered the carrying value of the loan with regard to the unit of account concept.
For each of the key assumptions in the valuation models, we considered the appropriateness of the assumption and whether alternative reasonable assumptions could have been applied.
We considered each assumption in isolation as well as in conjunction with other assumptions and the valuation as a whole.
Where appropriate, we sensitised the valuations where other reasonable alternative assumptions could have been applied.
We also considered the completeness and clarity of disclosures regarding the range of reasonable alternative assumptions in the financial statements.
Based on our procedures performed we concluded that the valuation of the investment portfolio was considered to be within an acceptable range.
40 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Independent Auditors Report continued Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements.
For planning, we consider materiality to be the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, could inuence the economic decisions of reasonable users that are taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Importantly, misstatements below this level will not necessarily be evaluated as immaterial as we also take account of the nature of identied misstatements, and the particular circumstances of their occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the financial statements as a whole.
The application of these key considerations gives rise to two levels of materiality for the Group, the quantum and purpose of which are tabulated below.
Materiality 2018 2017 measure Purpose Basic and Key considerations Quantum Quantum Financial Assessing whether the financial Based on 1.5 per cent.
of net 20,900,000 17,100,000 statement statements as a whole present asset value materiality a true and fair view The nature of the investment portfolio and the level of judgement inherent in the valuation The level of gearing in the portfolio Specic Assessing those classes of 10 per cent.
of profit before 11,600,000 4,500,000 materiality transactions, balances or tax for the year excluding classes of disclosures for which unrealised valuation transactions misstatements of lesser amounts movements and balances than materiality for the financial which impact statements as a whole could on the realised reasonably be expected to return inuence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
It is appropriate to set financial statement materiality for the parent company and the investment holding company at a lower level than Group materiality.
In light of the nature of the transactions and balances within each company, we have set materiality at 95 per cent.
Performance materiality is application of materiality at the individual account or balance level set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessment together with our assessment of the Group and the Companys overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality for the Company should be 75 per cent.
of materiality, namely 15.7 million 2017: 12.8 million for financial statement performance materiality and 8.7 million 2017: 3.4 million for specic performance materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Audit Committee all audit differences in excess of 390,000 2017:242,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit We carried out a full scope audit.
Our audit approach was developed by obtaining an understanding of the Groups activities and the overall control environment.
Based on this understanding we assessed those aspects of the Groups and the Companys transactions and balances which were most likely to give rise to a material misstatement.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of the valuation of investments which have a high level of estimation uncertainty involved in determining the unquoted investment valuations.
41 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued An overview of the scope of our audit continued We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
These included but were not limited to compliance with Companies Act 2006, the FCA listing and DTR rules, the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and IFRS.
We designed audit procedures to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery, misrepresentations or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Company financial statements.
Our tests included, but were not limited to: agreement of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation: enquiries of management: review of minutes of Board meetings throughout the period: and considering the effectiveness of control environment in monitoring compliance with laws and regulations.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Other information The other information comprises all the information included in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors on page 26 that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 31 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
42 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Independent Auditors Report continued Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and those reports have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identied material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Report of the Directors: or We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 30, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
43 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued Other matters which we are required to address Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2013 and subsequent financial periods.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 we were reappointed as auditor by the members at the annual general meeting of the Company held on 30 April 2018.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 6 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2013 to 31 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the parent company in conducting our audit.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Leigh Treacy Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of BDO LLP, Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 27 February 2019 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
