Independent auditors report to the members of Greggs plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the accounts of Greggs plc the Company for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2018 which comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, balance sheets, statements of changes in equity, statements of cashflows and the related notes, including the accounting policies on pages 85 to 90.
In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 29 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the period then ended: the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the Company before 1984.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for more than the 35 financial years ended 29 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: 4.0 million 2017: 4.0 million Group accounts as a whole 4.5 per cent 2017: 4.9 per cent of normalised PBT Coverage 100 per cent 2017: 100 per cent of Group profit before tax Key audit matters vs. 2017 Event-driven New: The impact of uncertainties due to the UK exiting the European Union Recurring risks New: Valuation of defined benefit pension obligation Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 74 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts 2.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the accounts and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the accounts as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response The impact of Unprecedented levels of uncertainty We developed a standardised firm-wide approach uncertainties due All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness to the consideration of the uncertainties arising to the UK exiting of estimates, related disclosures and the from Brexit in planning and performing our audits.
the European Union appropriateness of the going concern basis of Our procedures included: preparation of the accounts.
All of these depend Our Brexit knowledge: We considered the Group and Parent on assessments of the future economic environment Directors assessment of Brexit-related sources Company and the Groups future prospects and performance.
of risk for the Groups business and financial resources compared with our own understanding Refer to page 38 In addition, we are required to consider the other of the risks.
We considered the Directors plans principal risks, page 37 information presented in the annual report including to take action to mitigate the risks.
viability statement, the principal risks disclosure and the viability Sensitivity analysis: When addressing areas pages 51 to 56 Audit statement and to consider the Directors statement that depend on forecasts, for example, the Committee report, that the annual report and accounts taken as a whole key estimates and judgements described in page 85 accounting is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the accounts, we compared the Directors policy.
the information necessary for shareholders to assess analysis to our assessment of the full range the Groups position and performance, business of reasonably possible scenarios resulting from model and strategy.
Brexit uncertainty and, where forecast cash flows are required to be discounted, considered Brexit is one of the most significant economic adjustments to discount rates for the level of events for the UK and at the date of this report remaining uncertainty.
its effects are subject to unprecedented levels Assessing transparency: As well as assessing of uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range individual disclosures we considered all of the of possible effects unknown.
Brexit-related disclosures together, including those in the strategic report, comparing the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
Our res ults We found the resulting estimates and related disclosures and disclosures in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Greggs plc 2.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Valuation of defined Subjective valuation Our procedures included: benefit pension Small changes in the assumptions and estimates Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging, obligation used to value the Groups pension obligation with the support of our own actuarial specialists, before deducting scheme assets would have a the key assumptions applied, being the Group and Parent significant effect on the Groups and Companys discount rate, inflation rate, GMP equalisation, Company net pension deficit.
and mortality life expectancy against externally derived data: and 113.5 million: 2017: Additionally, as disclosed in Note 4 to the accounts Assessing transparency: Considering the 122.2 million the Groups pension scheme is impacted by the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of High Court ruling on Guaranteed Minimum Pension the sensitivity of the deficit to these assumptions.
Refer to page 53 GMP equalisation resulting in a judgemental Audit Committee change to the measurement of the obligation.
Our results report, pages 85 and 88 We found the valuation of the pension obligation accounting policy The effect of these matters is that, as part of our to be acceptable 2017 result: acceptable.
and pages 103 and 104 risk assessment, we determined that valuation of financial disclosures.
the defined benefit pension obligation has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the accounts as a whole.
The accounts Note 20 disclose the range sensitivity estimated by the Group.
We continue to perform procedures over retail property provisions and recoverability of property, plant and equipment.
However, following: a number of obligations having been exited with a corresponding reduction in size of the provisions: and progression of the Groups supply site investment programme reducing judgement over property, plant and equipment recoverability, we have not assessed these as the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, these are not separately identified in our report this year.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the accounts as a whole was set at 4.0 million 2017: 4.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax normalised to exclude exceptional items as disclosed in note 4 of the accounts of which it represents 4.5 per cent 2017: 4.9 per cent.
Materiality for the Parent Company accounts as a whole was set at 4.0 million 2017: 4.0 million determined with reference to a benchmark of Company profit before tax normalised to exclude exceptional items of which it represents 4.5 per cent 2017: 4.9 per cent.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements exceeding 200,000 2017: 200,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information which covered 100 per cent 2017: 100 per cent of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax and total Group assets.
The audit was performed using the materiality levels set out above.
The Group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
Profit before tax Group Materiality before exceptional items 4.0 million 2017: 4.0 million 89.8 million 2017: 81.8 million 4.0 million Whole accounts materiality 2017: 4.0 million Profit before tax Group materiality 200,000k Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee 2017: 200,000k Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 76 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern The Directors have prepared the accounts on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the accounts the going concern period.
Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue in operation.
In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Companys financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period.
The risks that we considered most likely to adversely affect the Groups and Companys available financial resources over this period were: the impact of a brand-damaging food scare on customer demand: the impact of a significant business continuity issue affecting the Groups production facilities: and the impact of Brexit on the Groups supply chain.
As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt on the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we considered sensitivities over the level of available financial resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking account of reasonably possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these risks individually and collectively and evaluated the achievability of the actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position should the risks materialise.
We also considered less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as the impact of Brexit on the erosion of customer or supplier confidence, which could result in a rapid reduction of available financial resources.
Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in the accounts on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the accounts: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 47 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the annual report The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the annual report together with the accounts.
Our opinion on the accounts does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our accounts audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the accounts or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and Directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the Directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the accounts: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our accounts audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 37 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: and the principal risks and uncertainties disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Greggs plc 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the annual report continued Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our accounts audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our accounts audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the corporate governance statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 73, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the accounts including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the accounts.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at: www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the accounts from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and discussed with the Directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the accounts varies considerably.
Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the accounts, including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation, taxation legislation and defined benefit pension legislation, and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 78 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts 7.
Respective responsibilities continued Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the accounts, for instance, through the imposition of fines or litigation or limitations on the Groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: Food Safety and Health & Safety, recognising the nature of the Groups activities.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the accounts, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the accounts, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Nick Plumb Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Quayside House 110 Quayside Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 3DX 7 March 2019 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79
