103 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GVC HOLDINGS PLC 1 OUR OPINION IS UNMODIFIED Basis for opinion We have audited the financial statements of GVC Holdings PLC We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards theCompany and its subsidiaries the Group for the year onAuditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Our responsibilities are described below.
We have fullled our ethical the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement responsibilities under, and are independent of the Group in accordance of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cashows, with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as the Company Balance Sheet, the Company Statement ofChanges applied to listed entities.
We believe that the audit evidence we have in Equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
2 KEY AUDIT MATTERS INCLUDING OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS In our opinion: OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December were of most signicance in the audit of the financial statements and 2018 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identied by us, including those which the Group financial statements have been properly prepared had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation inaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ofresources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement asadopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU : team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in arriving at our the parent Company financial statements have been properly audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with of, and solely for the purpose of our audit of the financial statements therequirements of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006. as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In arriving at our audit opinion above, the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit signicance, were as follows: DYNAMIC AUDIT PLANNING TOOL Relative signicance of audit risks before taking account of controls A The impact of G Impairment of goodwill, uncertainties due to the intangibles and PPE UK exiting the European of Ladbrokes Coral K Union on our audit Group Plc D Revenue recognition Valuation of dened B H from online operations benefit pension I H C C Gaming taxes in I Management override immature markets of controls G B D Acquisition accounting Disclosure impact of Ladbrokes Coral ofnew standards N Group Plc K Going concern A Disclosure of alternative Direct taxation performance measures Provisions for litigation Valuation of investments and claims and receivables Parent Company only N Onerous leases Likelihood of material misstatement Key audit matters Other risks Potential impact on financial statements 104 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GVC HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED A The impact of uncertainties due to the UK exiting B Revenue recognition from online operations the European Union on our audit 1,668.4 million Refer to page 12 Chief Executives review, page 62 viability statement Refer to page 120 accounting policy and pages 122 to 123 and page 65 Corporate Governance report.
The risk Unprecedented levels of uncertainty All audits The risk Data capture and processing The Group has a number assess and challenge the reasonableness of estimates, in particular as of income streams across its online operations, and the accuracy and described in the acquisition accounting of Ladbrokes Coral Group Plc completeness of the amounts recognized from these income streams below, and related disclosures and the appropriateness of the going is largely dependent on the effectiveness of the operational and anticoncern basis of preparation of the financial statements.
All of these fraud controls in place.
Revenue streams for many of the Groups depend on assessments of the future economic environment and the products are computed on highly-complex IT systems, with a number Groups future prospects and performance.
of different bases for calculating revenue.
In particular, there is a risk that the Groups in-house developed IT systems, which aim to correctly In addition, we are required to consider the other information presented calculate commission revenues and appropriate wins and losses, as in the Annual Report including the principal risks disclosure and applicable, may not be congured correctly from the outset such that the viability statement and to consider the Directors statement that commissions or winning and losing bets are calculated incorrectly.
the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary In addition, the Groups divisions are dependent on their customer for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, funds and core finance processes and controls accurately reporting business model and strategy.
on and reconciling these transactions, and there is a risk that the customer-facing and financial information systems may not interface Brexit is one of the most significant economic events for the UK and correctly and that unauthorised changes may be made, which may at the date of this report its effects are subject to unprecedented result in the misstatement of revenue.
levels of uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range of possible effects unknown.
Our response Our procedures included: Our response We developed a standardised rm-wide approach Control operation and reperformance: We utilised our own to the consideration of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning IT specialists to assess the general IT controls related to access and performing our audits.
Our procedures included: to programs and data, program change and development and computer operations by evaluating account set-up and termination Our Brexit knowledge We considered the Directors assessment of users, password restrictions, access reviews, users with superof Brexit-related sources of risk for the Groups business and financial user access, program change and development process controls resources compared with our own understanding of the risks.
We and integration monitoring, and tested whether any unauthorised considered the Directors plans to take action to mitigate the risks.
changes had been made to the system.
We assessed the overall Sensitivity analysis When addressing acquisition accounting IT environment, including: security policies and procedures, IT of Ladbrokes Coral Group Plc and other areas that depend on organisational structure, strategy and reporting, disaster recovery forecasts, we compared the Directors sensitivity analysis to our and back-up testing.
assessment of the worst reasonably possible, known adverse Our own IT specialists also tested the conguration of the system scenario resulting from Brexit uncertainty and, where forecasts cash which monitors the information transfer between key IT systems.
ows are required to be discounted, considered adjustments to In addition, our own IT specialists tested the effectiveness of the IT discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.
controls of the online betting environment when hosted in-house by Assessing transparency As well as assessing individual observing bets placed from the customer-facing systems and tracing disclosures as part of our procedures on acquisition accounting the transactions to the platform betting engine, and then from of Ladbrokes Coral Group Plc we considered all of the Brexit the data warehouse storage to the financial information systems related disclosures together, including those in the strategic report, accounting records to assess whether the information is passed comparing the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
appropriately from one system to another.
Where systems are hosted by third parties, we obtained an Our results As reported under the acquisition accounting of understanding of the nature of the services being provided.
Ladbrokes Coral Group Plc, we found the resulting estimates and Weperformed audit procedures to assess whether the third party related disclosures explaining the acquisition accounting of Ladbrokes services were operating as intended.
We tested the effectiveness Coral Group Plc to be balanced.
We also found the disclosures relating ofIT controls related to the interface between the third party systems to the possible impact of Brexit and relating to going concern to be to the Companys data warehouse.
We found that managements assessment that Brexit is unlikely to have a material impact on the Groups ability to continue as a Data comparisons: Where GITCs were not designed and going concern to be balanced.
However, no audit should be expected implemented effectively over in-house managed systems handling to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for the transfer of data, we compared the amounts of revenue in the a company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
accounting records against the amounts reported in the platform source data for each month and by label and fully reconciled the information between systems.
Test of details tracing and vouching : We assessed the appropriateness of revenue recognised by tracing a sample of betting transactions through the online betting systems or to third party systems when outsourced, and assessing that they are appropriately recorded within the financial information systems GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 105 at thetransaction level.
We also vouched a sample of betting Assessment of third party experts: We assessed the transactions recognised in the period from the accounting records competence and objectivity of third party experts engaged by the back to source data and reperformed the outcome of the transaction Group to advise on the legal position of any claims received by tax against the clients result.
Where the IT controls of the online betting authorities.
environment were not designed or implemented effectively, we Our tax expertise: We utilised our own indirect tax specialists in increased our substantive testing due to the results of our controls relevant markets to determine whether advice received from third testing, as applicable.
party experts is reasonable given the correspondence with the tax We then assessed the appropriateness of cash transferred between authorities and interpretation of the relevant legislation.
the payment service providers to corporate cash by reconciling the Assessing transparency: We considered the appropriateness total revenue amounts reported by key IT systems to the amount of the judgments taken and adequacy of the Groups disclosures transferred from the payment service provider to corporate cash: in respect of key tax exposures, notably in relation to ongoing and tested a sample of these settlements by agreeing the amounts discussions with the Greek tax authorities.
to the relevant bank information.
We also tested a sample of items comprising the customer liability balance and agreed the amounts Our results In determining the treatment of gaming taxes there is recorded to the individual customer wallet at the end of the room for judgment and we found that within that, the groups judgment financial period.
Enquiry of payment service providers PSPs : We obtained In particular, with respect to the accounting for Greek Tax we note that external conrmation of client funds held in the PSPs and reconciled the outcome could vary signicantly in the future as more information the obtained bank balance conrmation to the customers betting becomes available.
Our testing did not identify any indicators of accounts.
management bias in the estimation of the Greek gaming tax charge and related provisions.
We found that the disclosures relating to Greek Assessing transparency: We also considered the adequacy gaming taxes were light in the context of the level of uncertainty and of the Groups disclosures in respect of revenue.
size of the charge and related provisions.
Our results Our testing identied weaknesses in the design of IT General Controls for some of the Groups IT systems.
As a result Acquisition accounting of Ladbrokes Coral Group Plc D we expanded the extent of our detailed testing over and above that 3,344.7 million originally planned.
In some instances it was not possible to gain the Refer to page 78 Audit Committee Report, page 116 and 117 evidence required to rely on certain IT systems and in response to accounting policy and pages 149 and 150 financial disclosures.
this for the Online revenue streams affected we performed additional substantive testing to reconcile all revenue data recorded in the general The risk Valuation of intangible assets and fair value ledger to the transactions in the operating system.
This additional adjustments The valuation of intangible assets involves significant testing identied no errors in the recording of revenue transactions for judgment as it requires managements use of assumptions including the Online businesses.
revenue growth, theoretical royalty rates used to value trade names, customer churn rates and the application of a discount rate that is Gaming taxes in immature markets 186.8 million reective of the risks of the business.
C Refer to page 78 Audit Committee Report, page 116 accounting Other fair value adjustments, including those for provisions and policy and page 152 financial disclosures.
onerous leases, involve a high degree of judgment.
The risk gaming tax provisioning The business operates in The level of judgment involved in the fair value exercise from the a number of jurisdictions which have different gaming tax and duty Ladbrokes Coral Group Plc acquisition is heightened by the uncertainty regimes.
For some markets in which the Group now operates or facing the UK Retail business in light of the triennial review.
operated in the past, the tax regulations dealing specically with online Our response Our procedures included: gaming businesses might not yet be formed, are unclear or continue to evolve.
Changes in gaming tax and duty regimes can be announced Test of details: We reviewed managements calculation of the suddenly and applied retrospectively and in these instances the valuation of intangible assets and challenged their assumptions Directors are required to exercise a level of judgment surrounding for the fair value adjustments to assess whether the valuation is theinterpretation and application of the tax laws which may differ from appropriate.
that of relevant tax authorities.
The amounts involved are potentially We assessed the reasonableness of the cash ows used in valuation significant, and determining the amount, if any, to be provided as a models considering historical performance, accuracy of budgets and liability, is inherently subjective.
forecasts and key assumptions adopted in particular around the This leaves the Group exposed to risk of failure to appropriately record calculation of the likely impact of the triennial review.
provisions for gaming taxes and duty as the bases of tax assessments We reviewed the other key inputs used in valuation models and recan be subjective.
Our response Our procedures included: We evaluated the appropriateness of the other fair value adjustments Enquiry of management: We made enquiries of management to and considered whether there are indicators of bias in either identify jurisdictions where potential exposure to announced changes alignment to existing Group accounting policies or seeking to achieve in indirect tax and duty regimes is material.
Test of details: We reviewed managements calculation of gaming We considered managements justication for the amount of tax and duty costs in the period and provisions at the period end residual goodwill in the context of consideration and the fair value and validated that the relevant calculations had been performed adjustments applied.
accurately using the appropriate tax duty rates.
106 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GVC HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Our valuations specialist: We utilised our own valuation experts Valuation of investments and receivables to assist in challenging management on the completeness of the Parent Company only identied intangible assets and the appropriateness of the valuation Refer to pages 164 and 166 Company accounting policy and pages method adopted.
Assessment of third party experts: We assessed the The risk Carrying value of parent Companys investments and competence and objectivity of the third party valuation experts receivables are not recoverable The carrying amount of the engaged by the Group.
parent Companys investments in and debt due from entities operating Assessing transparency: We assessed the completeness in the Group is significant and at risk of irrecoverability.
The impairment test is subjective due to the inherent uncertainty Our results We found that the intangible assets identied were injudgments and estimates used.
typical of similar transactions in the sector and the valuation bases Our response Our procedures included: were in accordance with accounting standards.
We have no concerns with the basis on which the valuer had been instructed by the Group Benchmarking assumptions: We challenged the assumptions and found that the valuer was objective and competent and the used in the cash ows included in the budgets based on our estimates used in the valuations were balanced.
knowledge of the Group and the markets in which the subsidiaries operate.
Our testing identied that a key judgment made by management was that certain brands in the UK have indefinite lives and we consider that Historical comparisons: We assessed the reasonableness this judgment is balanced based on the longevity of those brands and ofthebudgets by considering the historical accuracy of the their prominence in the sector.
We identied no indicators of management bias in our work over Our sector experience: We evaluated the current level of trading, the acquisition accounting for Ladbrokes Coral Group Plc and including identifying any indications of a downturn in activity, by we found the disclosures to be proportionate given the importance examining the post year end management accounts and considering of the acquisition to the Group.
our knowledge of the Group and the market.
Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of the parent Disclosure of alternative performance measures Companys disclosures in respect of investments in subsidiaries Refer to page 78 Audit Committee Report, pages 115 and 116 group debtor balances.
accounting policy and page 123 financial disclosures.
Our results We found the Companys assessment of the The risk Disclosure of adjusting items and alternative recoverability of the investments in subsidiaries and intercompany performance measures The disclosure of adjusting items and receivables to be balanced.
alternative performance measures APMs is subjective.
In reaching our audit opinion on the financial statements we took There is a risk that items are classied as adjusting on an inconsistent into account the findings that we describe above and those for basis both within the period and between periods and that clear other, lower risk areas.
Overall the findings from across the whole and accurate explanation of adjusting items is not given in order audit are that the financial statements are balanced and provide tomanipulate the presentation of performance of the business.
Having assessed these findings and evaluateduncorrected misstatements in the context of materiality There is also a risk that undue prominence is given to nonandconsidered the qualitative aspects of the financial statements as GAAP measures.
awhole, we have not modied our opinion on the financial statements.
Our response Our procedures included: 3 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW Test of details: We reviewed managements calculations ofalternative performance measures to validate the accuracy OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT ofthedisclosures.
Materiality We challenged managements classication of adjusting items and Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set validated that they were outside the normal course of business and at 20 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group that presentation was on a consistent basis with prior periods.
revenue of which it represents 0.7%.
Turnover was considered to be We agreed items separately disclosed to appropriate documentation anappropriate benchmark due to the volatility of the result for the and veried that they had been captured accurately.
Group and the level of non-underlying items.
Assessing transparency: We reviewed the disclosure in the annual Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole was report and considered whether appropriate prominence had been set at 18 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of total given to GAAP measures and whether explanations of adjusting assets and chosen to be lower than materiality for the Group financial items and reconciliations of APMs and GAAP measures were clear statements as a whole.
It represents 0.3% of total assets.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or Our results We consider that there is proportionate disclosure of uncorrected identied misstatements exceeding 1 million, in the nature and amounts of the APMs, adjusting items and proforma addition to other identied misstatements that warranted reporting information to allow shareholders to understand the performance of onqualitative grounds.
Of the groups five components, we subjected four to full scope audits for group purposes.
We conducted reviews of financial information including enquiry at one further non-significant component.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 107 The component for which we performed a review of financial In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the information including enquiry was not individually significant enough inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model, including to require an audit for group reporting purposes but a review was the impact of Brexit, and analysed how those risks might affect the performed in order to provide further coverage over the groups results Groups and Companys financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period.
We evaluated those risks The components within the scope of our work accounted for the and concluded that they were not significant enough to require us to percentages illustrated below.
Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: we have anything to add or draw attention to in relation to theDirectors statement in Note 2 to the financial statements on theuse of the going concern basis of accounting with no material EBITDA uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Groups use REVENUE pre corporate of the basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date ofapproval of the financial statements.
costs and bonus We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
5 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT Full scope audit nancially significant The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion Review scope subject to analytical procedures on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the PROFIT financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work NET ASSETS we have not identied material misstatements in the other information.
BEFORE TAX Strategic report and Directors report The Directors are responsible for the other information, which comprises the Directors report and strategic report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, Full scope audit nancially significant accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Review scope subject to analytical procedures Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the 4 WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON GOING CONCERN financial statements or our audit knowledge.
The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going Based solely on that work: concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded we have not identied material misstatements in the other that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that information: and this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material in our opinion the information given in the Directors report for uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
Directors Remuneration Report Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the In addition to our audit of the financial statements, the Directors have Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty engaged us to audit the information in the Directors Remuneration related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
Report that is described as having been audited, which the Directors However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and have decided to prepare as if the Company was required to comply as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with the requirements of Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, the Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report SI2008 No.
410 made under the UK Companies Act 2006. is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue in operation.
In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as if those requirements applied to the Company.
9 % 5 5 % 9 8 % % 2 8 9 8 1 % % 4 1 % % 6 1 108 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GVC HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability 6 RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements Directors responsibilities audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 73, relation to: the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial the Directors conrmation within the long term viability statement statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair on page 62 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten the preparation of financial statements that are free from material its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going how they are being managed and mitigated: and concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the the Directors explanation in the long-term viability statement Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no ofhow they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what realistic alternative but to do so.
period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have Auditors responsibilities areasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, oftheir assessment, including any related disclosures drawing whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of report on these statements is not a guarantee as to theGroups and users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: 7 THE PURPOSE OF OUR AUDIT WORK AND TO WHOM WE OWE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES we have identied material inconsistencies between the knowledge This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors accordance with Section 80 c of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 statement that they consider that the annual report and financial and the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess required to state to them in an auditors report and the further matters the Groups position and performance, business model and we are required to state to them in accordance with the terms agreed strategy:or with the Company and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for by us to the Audit Committee.
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven Michael Harper provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Listing Rules for our review.
Accountants We have nothing to report in these respects.
15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 5 March 2019 GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In this section: Consolidated income statement 110 Consolidated statement ofcomprehensive income 111 Consolidated balance sheet 112 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 113 Consolidated statement of cash ows 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 115 Company balance sheet 162 Company statement of changes of equity 163 Notes to the Company financial statements 164
