Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Independent auditors report to the members Halma plc ofHalma plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: - Halma plcs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the groups profit and cash flows for the 12 month period the period then ended: - the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: - the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and - the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at 31 March 2018: the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, and the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the 12 month period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the company.
Other than those disclosed in note 6 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the company in the period from 2 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
Our audit approach Overview - Overall group materiality: 10.6 million based on 5% of profit before taxation before adjustments.
- Overall company materiality: 9.5 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Materiality - There were no significant components within the group.
- We performed audit procedures over 60 reporting components in the group.
- This provided coverage of 65% revenue, 78% profit before tax, and 93% net assets.
Audit - Acquisition accounting relating to the valuation of intangibles and fair value of contingent consideration Scope group and parent - Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes group and parent.
Key audit matters 112 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 112 Financial Statements The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the group and the industries in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and reporting component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the group and company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, UK tax legislation, Employment regulation, Health and safety regulation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited to review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, review of reporting component auditors' work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill impairment We have assessed the methodology and approach applied by Refer to page 128 and page 147 note 11 for managements management in performing their impairment reviews including the disclosure of this significant judgement identification of CGU groups, and ensured this is consistent with IAS 36.
As a result of a number of past acquisitions, goodwill with a carrying value of 632.2m 2017: 603.6m has been recognised on the balance We obtained managements annual impairment assessment for all 11 sheet.
The increase in value during the year is the result of five CGU groups and ensured the calculations were mathematically accurate.
acquisitions in the period net of exchange rate movements.
We evaluated the year 1 cash flows used for each CGU and assessed the short and long term growth rates applied to these.
In doing this, we Under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, all cash generating units CGUs compared the cash flow forecasts to the latest Board approved budgets containing goodwill must be tested for impairment annually.
To fulfil this and compared prior year budget to actual data, in order to assess the requirement, management perform an impairment review on an annual quality of the forecasting process.
We tested the growth rate assumptions basis for each of its 11 CGU groups, along with additional impairment by comparing them to managements strategic plans, previous sector reviews whenever an indication of impairment exists.
growth rates, and the long term rates to third party published economic data.
We also tested the discount rate by testing the data and rates The impairment reviews performed by management contain a number used in managements calculation back to third party source data.
of significant judgements and estimates including the identification We considered all assumptions used by management to be reasonable.
of CGU groupings, revenue growth rates and discount rates.
A change in these assumptions can result in a material change in the valuation We recalculated managements sensitivity analysis on key assumptions of the assets, and as a result there is a risk that goodwill is no longer and applied our own additional sensitivities by replacing key assumptions deemed to be recoverable and hence should be impaired.
The with alternative scenarios to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions used are particularly sensitive for the Sensor Technology assumptions that, either individually or collectively, would be required CGU where lower than forecast growth could result in an impairment for the goodwill to be impaired.
These did not indicate impairment as disclosed in note 11 to the accounts.
As a result, assessment of the carrying value of goodwill is a significant As included within note 11, lower than forecast growth in the Sensor risk due to the quantum of the balance and the judgements involved.
Technology CGU could result in an impairment and this CGU is more sensitive to changes in assumptions as the expected growth rates are significantly higher than others in the group.
This was reflected in the premium paid to acquire the business.
In respect of this CGU, we have performed a number of sensitivity assessments including running scenarios to reduce the period of cash flows used before projecting these to perpetuity, reducing the growth rates, removing the impact of changes in working capital and modelling the impact of associated changes to the cost base.
Whilst these scenarios reduce the potential headroom, there continues to be no impairment to goodwill in these instances.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 113 113 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members Independent auditors report to the members of Halma plc continued of Halma plccontinued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We have also reviewed the adequacy of disclosures made in the financial statements and assessed compliance with IAS 36.
Acquisition accounting We have obtained and read key documentation and agreements relating to the five acquisitions in the period together with obtaining the Refer to page 128 and page 160 note 24 for managements acquisition models and the final purchase price allocations performed by disclosure of the significant judgement relating to acquisition managements experts and agree with the identification of trade names, accounting and the valuation of acquired intangibles customer relationships, technology and non-compete agreements During the year ended 31 March 2018, the group completed as separately identified intangible assets.
five acquisitions with a combined total consideration of 123.0m.
Management engaged third party valuation experts to assist them We performed detailed testing of the opening balance sheet and related in the preparation of the acquisition accounting for all acquisitions fair value adjustments for each acquisition based on materiality.
With respect to the audit of the acquired intangible assets, we There is a risk that these acquisitions of CasMed NIBP, Cardios, Miniutilised our internal valuation experts to evaluate the methodology Cam, Setco and Argus are not appropriately accounted for in line with and assumptions used by managements experts including assessing IFRS3 Business Combinations and that the separate intangible assets discount rates, royalty rates and attrition rates.
We challenged the acquired are not appropriately valued by management as a result key assumptions used in these areas and performed sensitivity analysis of the methodology and assumptions used.
where rates differ from those we might typically use, noting no material differences.
We also assessed the useful lives which have been assigned There is further potential for material misstatement in the calculation to the acquired intangible assets and consider these to be reasonable of the fair value of contingent consideration payable on three of the based on the nature of the assets and the period over which benefits acquisitions in the period: being CasMed NIBP, Cardios and Mini-Cam, would flow to the group.
and in relation to the previous acquisitions of Visiometrics and FluxData.
Significant judgement has been applied by management in establishing Regarding contingent consideration, we agreed the terms used in the their best estimate of the liability for each of these acquisitions deferred contingent consideration calculation for new acquisitions to based on risk weighted assessments of the forecast performance the signed sale and purchase agreements.
We assessed the methodology of each business.
used by management to determine the estimate of future deferred contingent consideration payable for the most material agreements for Mini-Cam, Visiometrics and Flux Data and considered the underlying data used in each of these calculations, assessing this against post-acquisition results.
The weightings applied to different scenarios used by management in calculating the potential payable are highly judgemental and the sensitivity of the estimate increases where significant multiples are agreed as part of the contingent consideration agreement.
As a result we performed sensitivity analysis to run additional weighting scenarios and agree that the contingent consideration recorded by management is materially appropriate in light of what are considered to be the most likely scenarios.
These judgements can be materially impacted by the profit outturn for the entities involved and as a result, we concur with the decision to include additional disclosures surrounding these estimates.
We have reviewed the disclosures included in note 24 of the Annual Report and agree that these are consistent with our audit work performed and the disclosure requirements of IFRS 3.
Accounting for the liabilities associated with defined benefit We obtained the IAS 19 actuarial valuations for each material pension pension schemes scheme as prepared by managements experts and agreed the project unit methodology used to be appropriate.
Refer to page 128 and page 175 note 28 for managements disclosure of this significant judgement We used our internal actuarial experts to assess the appropriateness A defined benefit pension liability of 53.9m 2017: 74.9m has been of the significant assumptions used in determining the defined benefit recorded on the balance sheet at 31 March 2018 in respect of group pension liabilities including the discount rate, RPI and CPI inflation schemes.
As a result of the quantum of this liability and the level of assumptions and mortality assumptions.
Specifically, we ensured these judgement involved in calculating the closing liability, there is an fell within an acceptable range on benchmarking these against our increased risk of material misstatement.
internally accepted actuarial assumptions and noted no outliers.
Whilst management utilises the service of third party actuarial advisors We assessed the appropriateness and adequacy of the disclosures to determine their key assumptions, there is a risk that the discount in respect of the defined benefit pension liability in note 28 of the rate, rate of inflation and mortality assumptions used in the calculation annual report and agree these to be satisfactory and aligned to the are inappropriate.
114 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 114 Financial Statements How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The group is split into four sectors being Process Safety, Infrastructure Safety, Medical and Environmental & Analysis.
Each sector consists of a number of the businesses spread globally across more than 20 countries.
The businesses are further disaggregated into 194 reporting components within the consolidation.
We did not identify any individually significant components within the group, with no single component providing more than 10% of the groups revenue or profit before taxation before adjustments.
We determined the most effective approach to scoping was to perform full scope procedures over 44 reporting components where statutory audits were required in UK, France, Tunisia, Germany, Belgium, Switzerland, Ireland, New Zealand, UAE, Singapore, India and Italy, together with a further 3 reporting components in China.
In addition, specified audit procedures were performed over all material balances for a further 12 components in United States, Brazil, Luxembourg and Spain.
Additional audit procedures were performed in relation to the component relating to consolidation adjustments.
This approach ensured that appropriate audit coverage has been obtained over all financial statement line items.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement we needed to have in that audit work to ensure we could conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained for the group financial statements as a whole.
We issued written instructions to all component auditors and had regular communications with them throughout the audit cycle.
This included a meeting with each component team and review of all significant matters reported.
In addition, the group engagement partner has visited a number of sites in the US and UK, including meeting with local audit teams and local management as part of these visits.
Based on the detailed audit work performed across the group, we have gained coverage of 65% of total revenue, 78% of profit before tax, and 93% of net assets.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements 10.6 million.
Overall materiality 5% of profit before tax before adjustments.
How we determined it Rationale for Based on the benchmarks used in the annual report, We believe that a total asset benchmark is appropriate benchmark applied profit before tax before adjustments is the primary given that the company does not generate revenues measure used by the shareholders in assessing the of its own.
underlying performance of the group.
This benchmark excludes the impact of adjustments in respect of amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, acquisition items, restructuring costs, profit or loss on disposal of operations and any associated taxation on these items which are not considered to be representative of the underlying results of the business and which are therefore adjusted in the middle column of the Consolidated Income Statement.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across trading components was between 0.1 million and 2.4 million.
The highest materiality allocated to a component was 9.5 million as allocated to the parent company: Halma plc.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 group audit and 500,000 Company audit as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 115 115 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members Independent auditors report to the members of Halma plc continued of Halma plccontinued Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of the We have nothing material to add or directors statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to draw attention to.
However, because to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the not all future events or conditions can directors identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and the companys ability be predicted, this statement is not to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval a guarantee as to the groups and of the financial statements.
companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
116 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 116 Financial Statements Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the period ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: - The directors confirmation on page 80 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
- The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
- The directors explanation on page 80 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: - The statement given by the directors, on page 111, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
- The section of the Annual Report on pages 8185 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
- The directors statement relating to the companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 111, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 safer | cleaner | healthier 117 117 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members Independent auditors report to the members of Halma plc continued of Halma plccontinued Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: - we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or - adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or - certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or - the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 20 July 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
This is therefore our first year of uninterrupted engagement.
Owen Mackney Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Uxbridge 12 June 2018 118 safer | cleaner | healthier Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 118
