Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halfords Group plc only 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Halfords Group plc for the year ended 30 March 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, Company Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies on pages 100 to 147.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 March 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 29 July 2009.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 9 financial years ended 30 March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: group financial statements as a whole 3.2m 2017: 3.3m 4.7% 2017: 4.7% of normalised profit before tax Coverage 100% 2017:100% of group profit before tax Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 Recurring risks Carrying amount of Autocentres Goodwill Carrying value of Retail division inventory Parent company Recoverability of parent companys debtor balance 94 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 3:44 PM Proof 10 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarize below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Carrying amount of Autocentres Car Forecast-based estimate Our procedures included: Servicing Goodwill Following the acquisition of Nationwide Benchmarking assumptions: 69.7 million: FY17: 69.7 million Autocentres in 2010, the Group holds Comparing the Groups assumptions, in significant goodwill in the Autocentres particular those relating to forecast long Refer to page 76 Audit Committee Report, division.
term growth rates and discount rates, page 108 accounting policy and page 124 to externally derived data and budgeted financial disclosures.
The business operates in a competitive growth rate to industry forecasts and market, and commercial factors, changes to assessing the historical forecasting market share or changes to the frequency accuracy: with which customers replace their cars, Historical comparisons: Assessing the may lead to a risk that the business does Groups performance against budget in not meet the growth projections.
the current and prior periods to evaluate The estimated recoverable amount is the historical accuracy of the Groups subjective due to the inherent uncertainty forecasts: involved in forecasting these cash flows Sensitivity analysis: Performing and therefore, this is considered to be one sensitivity analysis on the assumptions, of the key judgemental areas that our audit including budgeted growth rates, is concentrated on.
discount rate and terminal growth rate: Comparing valuations: Comparing the sum of the discounted cash flows to the Groups market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of those cash flows: and Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Our result We have found the carrying amount of Autocentres Car Servicing goodwill to be acceptable.
com 95 25675 8 June 2018 3:44 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halfords Group plc only The risk Our response Carrying value of Retail division inventory Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: 186.8 million: FY17: 181.4 million Inventories are carried at the lower of cost Assessing methodology: Assessing and net realisable value.
The estimated the adequacy of the Groups inventory Refer to page 76 Audit Committee Report, net realisable value of inventory and provision methodology based on our page 110 accounting policy and page 127 associated provisions are subjective due knowledge of the industry and factors financial disclosures.
to the inherent uncertainty in predicting specific to the Group: consumer demand.
Assessing assumptions: Assessing and challenging the directors assumptions The obsolete stock provision is based behind the changes to the provision on a model which includes consideration methodology against our own of each inventory line, recent sales of knowledge of the industry and factors those lines and the products position in specific to the Group: its lifecycle.
The Group further overlays specific provisions to account for other Tests of detail: Testing the key inputs to matters not captured in the model, such as the provisioning model, including recent known stock losses and faulty goods.
sales data and inventory costing: Historical comparisons: Assessing There is a risk that the Groups assessment the accuracy of inventory provisioning of the level of these provisions is by checking the historical accuracy of insufficient or inaccurate.
the level of inventory provisions in prior periods: and Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the provision.
Our result As a result, we consider the carrying value of retail division inventory to be acceptable.
Recoverability of parents debt due from Low risk, high value Our procedures included: group entities The carrying amount of the group Tests of detail: Assessing 100% of 485.8 million: FY17: 478.5 million undertakings represents 95% of the group debtors balance to identify, with parent companys total assets.
Their reference to the relevant debtors net Refer to page 146 financial disclosures.
recoverability is not at a high risk of assets, both individually and collectively significant misstatement or subject to with their own subsidiaries where significant judgement.
However, due relevant, to consider whether they have to their materiality in the context of the a positive net asset value and therefore parent company financial statements, coverage of the debt owed.
We this is considered to be the area that had considered the results of our audit work the greatest effect on our overall parent over those net assets.
Our result We found the groups assessment of the recoverability of the group debtor balance to be acceptable.
96 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 3:44 PM Proof 10 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of Normalised profit Materiality the scope of our audit before tax 3.2m 2017: 3.3m 68.1m FY16: 71.4m Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set 3.2m at 3.2 million FY17: 3.3 million, determined with reference to a Whole financial statements materiality benchmark of group profit before tax normalised to exclude one 2017: 3.3m off Directors remuneration see note 5, of 68.1 million, of which it represents 4.7% FY17: with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax, of which it represented 4.7%.
2.8m Range of materiality at Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a 4 components 0.4m-2.8m whole was set at 2.8 million FY17: 3.0 million, determined with 2017: 01m to 3m reference to a benchmark of total assets, of which it represents 0.6% FY17: 0.6%.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected 0.16m Group materiality identified misstatements exceeding 0.16 million FY17: 0.17 Misstatements reported Profit before tax million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted to the audit committee 2017: 0.17m reporting on qualitative grounds.
FY18 profit before tax was normalised to exclude one Of the Groups 4 FY17: 5 components, we subjected 4 FY17: 5 to off Directors remuneration full scope audits for group purposes.
Cycle Republic was split out as see note 5 a separate component in FY17 but this year has been included within Halfords Retail.
All components are located in the UK.
Group revenue The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
FY2017 100% The group team approved the component materialities, which FY2018 100% ranged from 0.5 million to 2.9 million FY17: 0.1 million to 3.0 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work, including the audit of the parent Company, was performed by the group team.
The group team also performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised group profit before tax.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: Group profit before tax we have anything material to add or draw attention to in FY2017 100% relation to the directors statement on page 91 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting FY2018 100% with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under Listing Rules set out on page 56 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge We have nothing to report in these respects.
com 97 25675 8 June 2018 3:44 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halfords Group plc only 5.
We have nothing to report on the other Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented we have identified material inconsistencies between the in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other and the directors statement that they consider that the annual information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion and understandable and provides the information necessary for thereon.
shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, the section of the annual report describing the work of the consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance information.
Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Strategic report and directors report Listing Rules for our review.
Based solely on our work on the other information: We have nothing to report in these respects.
we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters in our opinion the information given in those reports for the on which we are required to report by exception financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance our opinion: with the Companies Act 2006. adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Directors remuneration report Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to received from branches not visited by us: or be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term agreement with the accounting records and returns: or viability certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements are not made: or audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in we have not received all the information and explanations we relation to: require for our audit.
the directors confirmation within the viability statement on We have nothing to report in these respects.
page 55 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
98 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 8 June 2018 3:44 PM Proof 10 7.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 91, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable Companys members those matters we are required to state to them the preparation of financial statements that are free from material in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to formed.
liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or Michael Froom Senior Statutory Auditor have no realistic alternative but to do so.
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Auditors responsibilities One Snowhill Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham the financial statements as a whole are free from material B4 6GH misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see 22 May 2018 below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations, irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
com 99 25675 8 June 2018 3:44 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
