Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hammerson plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Hammerson plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups loss and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2018: the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, and the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 67.0 million 2017: 74.0 million, based on 0.75% of the Groups total assets.
Specific Group materiality: 12.0 million 2017: 12.3 million, based on 5% of adjusted earnings.
Overall Company materiality: 77.8 million 2017: 84.0 million, based on 0.75% of the Companys Materiality total assets.
The UK and French components were subject to a full scope audit.
Together these components account for 73% of the Groups total assets.
The Irish and VIA Outlets components were subject to an audit over certain account balances including Audit scope investment property.
The underlying financial information of Value Retail was subject to specified procedures over certain account balances including investment property.
Key audit Valuation of investment property, either held directly or within joint ventures Group.
matters Accounting for the investment in Value Retail and valuation of investment property held by Value Retail Group.
Valuation of investments in subsidiary companies Company.
1 116 116 16 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hammerson plc The scope of our audit Report on the audit of the financial statements As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Opinion Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations to be related to tax legislation including the Real Estate Investment Trust requirements, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a In our opinion: material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial Hammerson plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state statements such as the Companies Act 2006 and Listing Rules.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups loss and cash flows for the year then ended: of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting standards IFRSs as adopted journal entries to increase revenue, and management bias in accounting estimates.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the by the European Union: component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Group engagement team and or component auditors included: United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and Discussions with management and internal audit, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial regulation and fraud: statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Evaluation of managements controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities: We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to the valuation 31 December 2018: the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Cash Flow of investment property see related key audit matter below : and Statement, and the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted to revenue with unusual account combinations or posted by senior which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material Basis for opinion misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
We believe that the audit Key audit matters evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, Independence including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a in accordance with these requirements.
complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter or the Company.
Given the inherent subjectivity involved in the valuation of investment Valuation of investment property, either held directly or within Other than those disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period properties, the need for deep market knowledge when determining the joint ventures from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. most appropriate assumptions, and the technicalities of valuation Group methodology, we engaged our internal valuation experts qualified Refer to page 81 Audit Committee Report, pages 146 to 152 Our audit approach chartered surveyors to assist us in our audit of this matter.
Notes to the financial statements notes 12 and 13, page 131 Overview Assessing the valuers expertise and objectivity Significant judgements and key estimates, and page 133 We assessed the external valuers qualifications and expertise and read Significant accounting policies.
Overall Group materiality: 67.0 million 2017: 74.0 million, based on 0.75% of the Groups total assets.
their terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there The Group directly owns, or owns via joint ventures or associates, Specific Group materiality: 12.0 million 2017: 12.3 million, based on 5% of adjusted earnings.
were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have a portfolio of property which includes shopping centres, retail parks, imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also considered fee Overall Company materiality: 77.8 million 2017: 84.0 million, based on 0.75% of the Companys developments and premium outlets.
The total value of this portfolio as arrangements between the external valuers and the Group, and other total assets.
Of engagements which might exist between the Group and the valuers.
this portfolio 3,830 million is held by subsidiaries 2017: 4,686 We found no evidence to suggest that the objectivity of the external million and 4,256 million by joint ventures 2017: 4,211 million.
valuers, in their performance of the valuations, was compromised.
Together these components account for These properties are spread across the UK, French, Irish and VIA 73% of the Groups total assets.
Data provided to the valuers Outlets components.
The remainder of the portfolio is held within We checked the accuracy of the underlying lease data and capital associates, primarily in respect of Value Retail.
The Groups share of The Irish and VIA Outlets components were subject to an audit over certain account balances including expenditure used by the external valuers in their valuation of the Value Retails investment property is 1,823 million 2017: 1,634 investment property.
portfolio by tracing the data back to the relevant component accounting million.
The valuation of this property is discussed within the The underlying financial information of Value Retail was subject to specified procedures over certain account records and signed leases on a sample basis.
No exceptions were subsequent key audit matter.
This was identified as a key audit matter given the valuation of Assumptions and estimates used by the valuers the investment property portfolio is inherently subjective and We read the external valuation reports for all the properties and complex due to, among other factors, the individual nature of each Valuation of investment property, either held directly or within joint ventures Group.
confirmed that the valuation approach for each was in accordance property, its location, and the expected future rental streams for that Accounting for the investment in Value Retail and valuation of investment property held by with RICS standards and suitable for use in determining the final value particular property.
The wider challenges currently facing the UK Value Retail Group.
for the purpose of the financial statements.
retail real estate occupier and investor markets further contributed Valuation of investments in subsidiary companies Company.
to the subjectivity for the year ended 31 December 2018.
We met with external valuers to discuss and challenge the valuation process, the key assumptions, and the rationale behind the more The valuation is carried out by external valuers, Cushman & significant valuation movements during the year.
It was evident from Wakefield as defined in note 12, in accordance with the RICS our interaction with the external valuers, and from our review of the Valuation Professional Standards and the Group accounting policies valuation reports, that close attention had been paid to each propertys which incorporate the requirements of International Accounting individual characteristics at a granular, tenant by tenant level, as well Standard 40, Investment Property.
as considering the property specific factors such as the overall quality, geographic location and desirability of the asset as a whole.
116 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 www.
com 117 117 117 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hammerson plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter In addition we performed the following procedures for each type of Valuation of investment property, either held directly or within joint property.
We were able to obtain sufficient evidence to support the ventures continued valuation and did not identify any material issues during our work.
The properties are held primarily at investment value reflecting the fact that the properties are largely existing operational properties currently Shopping centres and retail parks generating rental income.
Shopping centres and retail parks are primarily For shopping centres and retail parks we obtained details of each valued using the income capitalisation method, and premium outlets are property and set an expected range for yield and capital value valued on a discounted cash flow DCF basis.
movement, determined by reference to published benchmarks and Those development properties that are subject to an active ongoing using our experience and knowledge of the market.
We compared the yield and capital movement of each property with our expected development are valued using the residual valuation approach.
We also considered the reasonableness of other assumptions operational properties, but which have development potential, are that are not so readily comparable with published benchmarks, such valued under the income capitalisation method but adjusted to account for development potential.
Development land is valued on a land per as ERV.
Where assumptions were outside the expected range or otherwise appeared unusual we undertook further investigations acre basis.
and, when necessary, obtained corroborating evidence to support Shopping centres and retail parks explanations received.
This enabled us to assess the property In determining the valuation of a shopping centre or retail park the specific factors that have had an impact on value, including recent valuers take into account property specific information such as the comparable transactions where appropriate, and to conclude on the current tenancy agreements and rental income.
They then apply reasonableness of the assumptions utilised.
judgemental assumptions such as yield and estimated rental value ERV, which are influenced by prevailing market yields and where Premium outlets appropriate comparable market transactions, to arrive at the final For premium outlets we initially obtained details of each property.
Due to the unique nature of each property, the judgemental We then assessed the reasonableness of each propertys key assumptions to be applied are determined having regard to the individual assumptions comparing its yield, discount rate, sales density and property characteristics at a granular, tenant by tenant level, as well as rental income growth rates to comparable market benchmarks.
considering the qualities of the property as a whole.
In doing so we had regard to property specific factors and our knowledge of the market, including recent comparable transactions Premium outlets where appropriate.
We obtained corroborating evidence to support In determining the valuation of a premium outlet the valuers take into explanations received from the valuers where appropriate.
account property specific information such as the current tenancy agreements, rental income generated by the asset, as well as property Developments operating costs.
They then apply judgemental assumptions such as yield, For significant ongoing developments valued via the residual discount rate, sales density and expected rental income growth rates, valuation method we obtained the development appraisal and which are influenced by prevailing market yields and where appropriate assessed the reasonableness of the valuers key assumptions.
This comparable market transactions, to arrive at the final valuation.
Due included comparing the yield to publicised benchmarks, comparing to the unique nature of each property, the judgemental assumptions the costs to complete estimates to development plans, and to be applied are determined having regard to the individual property considering the reasonableness of other assumptions that are not characteristics at a granular, unit by unit level, as well as considering so readily comparable with published benchmarks, such as ERV the qualities of the property as a whole.
Where assumptions appeared unusual we Developments undertook further investigations and, when necessary, obtained In determining the valuation of development property held under a corroborating evidence to support explanations received.
residual valuation the valuers take into account the property specific For operational properties with development potential we information such as the development plans for the site.
They then apply a performed the same procedures as described previously for number of judgemental assumptions including ERV and yield within the shopping centres and retail parks.
Additionally we considered the gross development value, estimated costs to complete and developers reasonableness of any additional value recognised for development profit to arrive at the valuation.
Due to the unique nature of an ongoing potential by reviewing the stage of progress of the proposed development the judgemental assumptions to be applied are determined development including verifying any planning consents obtained.
having regard to the nature and risks associated with each development.
For development land valued on a land per acre basis we obtained In determining the valuation of operational properties with development details of the comparable land transactions utilised by the valuers.
potential the valuers initially follow the same methodology as described We verified the value of these transactions to supporting evidence previously to arrive at an income capitalisation value.
Having regard and considered their comparability to the asset being valued.
to the unique nature of each property, the likelihood of the development Overall findings progressing and the status of planning consents for the development, We found that the assumptions used by the valuers were the valuers then make adjustments to the valuation to reflect predominantly consistent with our expectations and comparable development potential.
benchmarking information for the asset type, and that the In determining the value of development land the valuers primarily assumptions were applied appropriately and reflected those available have regard for the land per acre value achieved by comparable recent comparable market transactions.
Where assumptions did not fall land transactions.
within our expected range we were satisfied that variances were due to property specific factors such as new lettings at higher rents.
We concluded that the assumptions used in the valuations by the external valuers were supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence.
1 118 118 18 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hammerson plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter In addition we performed the following procedures for each type of Valuation of investment property, either held directly or within joint Accounting for the investment in Value Retail and valuation of investment Investment property valuation property.
We were able to obtain sufficient evidence to support the ventures continued property held by Value Retail As Group auditors we formally instructed the component auditors valuation and did not identify any material issues during our work.
The properties are held primarily at investment value reflecting the fact Group of Value Retail to perform specified procedures over the underlying that the properties are largely existing operational properties currently Shopping centres and retail parks Refer to page 81 Audit Committee Report, pages 153 to 156 Notes to financial information of Value Retail.
These procedures included generating rental income.
Shopping centres and retail parks are primarily For shopping centres and retail parks we obtained details of each work over the valuation of investment property within Value Retail.
the financial statements note 14, page 131 Significant judgements, valued using the income capitalisation method, and premium outlets are property and set an expected range for yield and capital value key assumptions and estimates, and page 132 Significant accounting The procedures performed were in line with those procedures valued on a discounted cash flow DCF basis.
movement, determined by reference to published benchmarks and policies.
described within the previous key audit matter surrounding the Those development properties that are subject to an active ongoing using our experience and knowledge of the market.
We compared remainder of the Groups premium outlet investment properties.
The Group has an investment in Value Retail, a separate group owning the yield and capital movement of each property with our expected development are valued using the residual valuation approach.
Existing a number of premium outlet centres across the United Kingdom and We have obtained reporting from the component auditors and have range.
We also considered the reasonableness of other assumptions operational properties, but which have development potential, are Europe.
The Group equity accounts for its interest in Value Retail as an reviewed the results and quality of their work over investment that are not so readily comparable with published benchmarks, such valued under the income capitalisation method but adjusted to account associate.
The Groups investment as at 31 December 2018 was property valuation.
Where assumptions were outside the expected range or 1,211 million 2017: 1,069 million.
In addition the Group audit team attended the meeting held between otherwise appeared unusual we undertook further investigations acre basis.
Investment property valuation Cushman & Wakefield and the component auditors and reviewed the and, when necessary, obtained corroborating evidence to support Shopping centres and retail parks The valuation of the Groups investment in Value Retail is predominantly component auditors working papers.
This enabled us to assess the property In determining the valuation of a shopping centre or retail park the driven by the valuation of the property assets within the Value Retail We have no issues to report and have obtained sufficient audit specific factors that have had an impact on value, including recent valuers take into account property specific information such as the portfolio.
The value of this property was 5,029 million as at 31 December comfort over the investment property balances within the Value comparable transactions where appropriate, and to conclude on the current tenancy agreements and rental income.
The Groups share of the Value Retail Retail information.
reasonableness of the assumptions utilised.
judgemental assumptions such as yield and estimated rental value property, which is included within the wider Group portfolio of Accounting for the investment in Value Retail ERV, which are influenced by prevailing market yields and where Premium outlets 9,938 million 2017: 10,560 million, was 1,823 million In respect of the complexity within the calculation of the Groups appropriate comparable market transactions, to arrive at the final For premium outlets we initially obtained details of each property.
investment in Value Retail, we obtained the ownership structure for valuation.
Due to the unique nature of each property, the judgemental We then assessed the reasonableness of each propertys key The judgements and risks associated with the valuation of this portfolio Value Retail as at 31 December 2018.
We instructed the component assumptions to be applied are determined having regard to the individual assumptions comparing its yield, discount rate, sales density and are similar to those in the remainder of the Groups premium outlets auditor to verify the Groups percentage ownership of each entity property characteristics at a granular, tenant by tenant level, as well as rental income growth rates to comparable market benchmarks.
portfolio discussed within the previous key audit matter, with the within the Value Retail group including taking account of the considering the qualities of the property as a whole.
In doing so we had regard to property specific factors and our properties also being valued by Cushman & Wakefield as defined in acquisitions in the year.
We have obtained reporting from the knowledge of the market, including recent comparable transactions Premium outlets note 12 on a DCF basis.
component auditors on this procedure and have reviewed the results where appropriate.
We obtained corroborating evidence to support In determining the valuation of a premium outlet the valuers take into Accounting for the investment in Value Retail and quality of their work.
explanations received from the valuers where appropriate.
account property specific information such as the current tenancy Value Retail has a complex ownership structure whereby each investing We have tested the adjustments made within the Group agreements, rental income generated by the asset, as well as property Developments party owns differing proportions of each of the entities, and hence consolidation in accordance with IAS 28 Investments in associates operating costs.
They then apply judgemental assumptions such as yield, For significant ongoing developments valued via the residual properties, within the Value Retail group.
As such this creates significant and joint ventures in arriving at the Groups equity accounted discount rate, sales density and expected rental income growth rates, valuation method we obtained the development appraisal and complexity in determining the overall investment in Value Retail held investment in Value Retail to ensure they are appropriate.
which are influenced by prevailing market yields and where appropriate assessed the reasonableness of the valuers key assumptions.
This within the Group consolidated financial statements.
We have no issues to report in respect of this work.
comparable market transactions, to arrive at the final valuation.
Due included comparing the yield to publicised benchmarks, comparing Therefore, on the basis of the significant judgement within the to the unique nature of each property, the judgemental assumptions the costs to complete estimates to development plans, and investment property valuation, and the complexity in determining to be applied are determined having regard to the individual property considering the reasonableness of other assumptions that are not the overall investment in Value Retail, we identified this as a key characteristics at a granular, unit by unit level, as well as considering so readily comparable with published benchmarks, such as ERV audit matter.
the qualities of the property as a whole.
Where assumptions appeared unusual we We obtained the Directors valuation for the value of investments Developments undertook further investigations and, when necessary, obtained Valuation of investments in subsidiary companies held in subsidiary companies as at 31 December 2018.
In determining the valuation of development property held under a corroborating evidence to support explanations received.
Company residual valuation the valuers take into account the property specific We assessed the accounting policy for investments to ensure it was For operational properties with development potential we Refer to page 170 Notes to the Company financial statements note C information such as the development plans for the site.
They then apply a compliant with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
performed the same procedures as described previously for and page 170 Accounting policies.
number of judgemental assumptions including ERV and yield within the shopping centres and retail parks.
Additionally we considered the We verified that the methodology used by the Directors in arriving at The Company has investments in subsidiary companies of 4,551 million gross development value, estimated costs to complete and developers reasonableness of any additional value recognised for development the fair value of each subsidiary was compliant with FRS 101 Reduced 2017: 4,897 million as at 31 December 2018. profit to arrive at the valuation.
Due to the unique nature of an ongoing potential by reviewing the stage of progress of the proposed Disclosure Framework.
The Companys accounting policy is to hold these investments at fair development the judgemental assumptions to be applied are determined development including verifying any planning consents obtained.
We identified the key judgement within the valuation of investments value.
Given the inherent judgement and complexity in assessing the fair having regard to the nature and risks associated with each development.
For development land valued on a land per acre basis we obtained held in subsidiary companies to be the valuation of investment value of a subsidiary, this was identified as a key audit matter for our audit In determining the valuation of operational properties with development details of the comparable land transactions utilised by the valuers.
property held by each investee.
For details of our procedures over of the Company.
potential the valuers initially follow the same methodology as described We verified the value of these transactions to supporting evidence investment property valuations please refer to page 117 within this The primary determinant and key judgement within the fair value of previously to arrive at an income capitalisation value.
report since this was identified as a key audit matter in its own right each subsidiary company is the value of the investment property held by to the unique nature of each property, the likelihood of the development for the Group.
As such it was over this area we applied the most focus and progressing and the status of planning consents for the development, We found that the assumptions used by the valuers were We have no matters to report in respect of this work.
the valuers then make adjustments to the valuation to reflect predominantly consistent with our expectations and comparable development potential.
118 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 www.
com 119 119 119 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hammerson plc continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group owns and invests in a number of shopping centres, retail parks, developments and premium outlets across the United Kingdom and Europe.
These are held within a variety of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Based on our understanding of the Group we focused our audit work primarily on five components being: UK, France, Ireland, Value Retail and VIA Outlets.
The UK and French components were subject to a full scope audit given their financial significance to the Group.
Ireland and VIA Outlets were subject to an audit over certain account balances including investment property, based on our assessment of risk and materiality of the Groups operations at each component.
The underlying financial information of Value Retail was subject to specified procedures over certain account balances including investment property, based on our assessment of risk and materiality of the Groups operations at this component.
The UK and French components account for 73% 2017: 77% of the Groups total assets.
The UK and Irish components were audited by the Group team.
The French, VIA Outlets and Value Retail components were audited by component teams.
Detailed instructions were sent to all component teams.
These instructions covered the significant areas that should be addressed by the component auditors which included the relevant risks of material misstatement and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
In addition, regular meetings were held with the component audit teams, with the Group audit team attending the clearance meeting for all component audits.
Finally the Group audit team performed a detailed review of the working papers of all component teams to ensure the work performed was appropriate.
These procedures, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level including audit procedures over the consolidation and consolidation adjustments, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
In respect of the audit of the Company, the Group audit team performed a full scope statutory audit.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 67.0 million 2017: 74.0 million.
How we determined it 0.75% of the Groups total assets.
0.75% of the Companys total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We determined materiality based on total assets given the Given the Hammerson plc entity is valuation of investment properties, whether held directly or primarily a holding company we through joint ventures and associates, is the key determinant determined total assets to be the of the Groups value.
This materiality was utilised in the audit of investing and financing activities.
How we determined it 5% of adjusted earnings.
Rationale for benchmark applied In arriving at this materiality we had regard to the fact that Not applicable.
adjusted earnings is a secondary financial indicator of the Group Refer to note 11 of the financial statements where the term is defined in full.
This materiality was utilised in the audit of operating activities.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was 20.0 million to 57.0 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 3.3 million Group audit 2017: 3.7 million and 3.9 million Company audit 2017: 4.2 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
In addition we agreed with the Audit Committee we would report to them misstatements identified during our Group audit above 1.2 million 2017: 0.6 million for misstatements related to operating items within the financial statements, as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
1 120 120 20 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hammerson plc continued How we tailored the audit scope Going concern We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
Reporting obligation Outcome The Group owns and invests in a number of shopping centres, retail parks, developments and premium outlets across the United Kingdom and Europe.
We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, These are held within a variety of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this Based on our understanding of the Group we focused our audit work primarily on five components being: UK, France, Ireland, Value Retail and statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to VIA Outlets.
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial continue as a going concern.
For example, the terms on which the United statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which is currently The UK and French components were subject to a full scope audit given their financial significance to the Group.
Ireland and VIA Outlets were subject to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern due to occur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate to an audit over certain account balances including investment property, based on our assessment of risk and materiality of the Groups operations over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the all of the potential implications on the Groups and Companys trade, at each component.
The underlying financial information of Value Retail was subject to specified procedures over certain account balances including financial statements.
customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
investment property, based on our assessment of risk and materiality of the Groups operations at this component.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially The UK and Irish components were audited by the Group team.
The French, VIA Outlets and Value Retail components were audited by inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information Detailed instructions were sent to all component teams.
These instructions covered the significant areas that should be addressed by the component The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
auditors which included the relevant risks of material misstatement and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, team.
In addition, regular meetings were held with the component audit teams, with the Group audit team attending the clearance meeting for all accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially These procedures, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level including audit procedures over the consolidation and misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether consolidation adjustments, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have In respect of the audit of the Company, the Group audit team performed a full scope statutory audit.
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
These, together with With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual been included.
financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the statements as a whole.
Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: UK unless otherwise stated.
Group financial statements Company financial statements Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year Overall materiality 67.0 million 2017: 74.0 million.
ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 How we determined it 0.75% of the Groups total assets.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify Rationale for benchmark applied We determined materiality based on total assets given the Given the Hammerson plc entity is any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 valuation of investment properties, whether held directly or primarily a holding company we through joint ventures and associates, is the key determinant determined total assets to be the The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Groups value.
of the Group This materiality was utilised in the audit of investing and We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: financing activities.
The Directors confirmation on page 56 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, Specific materiality 12.0 million 2017: 12.3 million.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 63 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group Rationale for benchmark applied In arriving at this materiality we had regard to the fact that Not applicable.
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures adjusted earnings is a secondary financial indicator of the Group Refer to note 11 of the financial statements where the term is drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks This materiality was utilised in the audit of operating activities.
facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge allocated across components was 20.0 million to 57.0 million.
and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 3.3 million Group audit 2017: 3.7 million and 3.9 million Company audit 2017: 4.2 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
120 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 www.
com 121 121 121 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hammerson plc continued Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 115, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 79 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 115, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 25 April 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is two years, covering the years ended 31 December 2017 to 31 December 2018.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 25 February 2019 1 122 122 22 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2018
