112 | Corporate governance Independent auditors report to the members of Hastings Group Holdings plc Overview 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Materiality: 6.3m 2017: 6.5m We have audited the Financial Statements of Hastings Group group financial 4.1% of profit before tax Holdings plc the Company for the year ended 31 December statements as a whole 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Profit or 2017: 4.6% of profit before tax Loss, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Coverage 100% 2017: 100% of group profit Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of before tax Changes in Equity and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 Parent Company Balance Sheet, Parent Company Statement Recurring risks Valuation of outstanding of Changes in Equity, Parent Company Statement of Cash claims liabilities Flows and the related Notes, including the accounting policies Recoverability of in note 2. reinsurance assets Recoverability of the cost of In our opinion: investment in subsidiaries the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the Event driven New: The impact of uncertainties state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as due to the UK exiting the at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year European Union on our audit then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly 2.
K ey audit matters: including our assessment prepared in accordance with International Financial of risks of material misstatement Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional IFRSs as adopted by the EU : judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the the Parent Company Financial Statements have been Financial Statements and include the most significant properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of to fraud identified by us, including those which had the the Companies Act 2006: and greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of audit procedures to address those matters and, as required the IAS Regulation.
for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on Basis for opinion procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the We conducted our audit in accordance with International purpose of, our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and opinion on these matters.
appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
Key audit matter The impact of uncertainties due to the UK exiting the We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on European Union on our audit 23 September 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted Refer to page 34 principal risks, page 33 viability statement, engagement is for the four financial years ended 31 December page 87 Risk Committee Report and page 124 Basis of 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and preparation.
we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as The risk applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services Unprecedented levels of uncertainty prohibited by that standard were provided.
All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness of estimates, in particular as described in outstanding claims liabilities, reinsurance assets and recoverability of the cost of investment in subsidiaries below.
All of these depend on assessments of the future economic environment and the Groups future prospects and performance.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 113 In addition, we are required to consider the other information Large bodily injury claims, which form a substantial part of presented in the Annual Report including the principal risks claims incurred and reported, exhibit greater variability and disclosure and the viability statement and to consider the judgement as to the severity of the damages.
Directors statement that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and This judgement is applied to a number of key assumptions, understandable and provides the information necessary for such as the frequency and severity of incurred bodily injury, shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, accidental damage and third party property damage losses, business model and strategy.
the choice of development pattern, and the choice of discount rate to estimate the present value of large bodily injury claims.
Brexit is one of the most significant economic events for the UK and at the date of this report its effects are subject to The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk unprecedented levels of uncertainty of outcomes, with the assessment, we determined that the valuation of insurance full range of possible effects unknown.
contracts liabilities has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a Our response whole, and possibly many times that amount.
We developed a standardised firm wide approach to the consideration of uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning Our procedures included: and performing our audits.
Our procedures included: Control observation: including whether the Group had Our Brexit knowledge: We considered the Directors followed their documented reserving policy in estimating assessment of Brexit related sources of risk for the Groups IBNR.
business and financial resources compared with our own understanding of the risks.
We considered the Directors Control re-performance: We tested controls over the plans to take action to mitigate the risks.
completeness and accuracy of claims data underlying the actuarial projections used by the internal and external Assessing transparency: As well as assessing individual actuaries to set the IBNR reserves.
We tested controls over disclosures as part of our procedures on outstanding claims the setting and monitoring of case reserves over large liabilities, reinsurance assets and recoverability of the cost bodily injury claims.
of investments in subsidiaries, we considered all of the Brexit related disclosures together, including those in the Our actuarial experience: Using our actuarial specialists strategic report, comparing the overall picture against our we evaluated the findings of the Groups internal actuary understanding of the risks.
and the independent actuary report.
Through critical assessment of these actuarial reports and supporting Our result documentation, and through discussion with both As reported under outstanding claims liabilities, actuaries, we analysed and challenged the differences in reinsurance assets and recoverability of the cost of reserving methodology applied by both actuaries as well as investment in subsidiaries, we found the resulting the key assumptions being used including claims frequency, estimates and related disclosures of these items to be claims severity, claims inflation, discount rates, subrogation acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to and the impact of legislative and process developments.
We predict the unknowable factors or all possible future performed diagnostics on paid and incurred claim severities implications for a company and this is particularly the and claim frequencies.
Alternative projections were case in relation to Brexit.
performed on the bodily injury and third party property damage perils as these were identified as the most material Key audit matter areas of risk to the audit.
Valuation of outstanding claims liabilities Benchmarking assumptions: We evaluated the 1,340.1 million: 2017: 1,193.3 million assumptions through assessment of claims development Refer to page 76 Audit Committee Report, page 126 trends and benchmarking to market data.
accounting policies and page 150 financial disclosures.
Historical comparisons: We compared prior year reserves The risk to actual outcomes to assess whether the Group has historically set adequate reserves.
We assessed the extent Subjective valuation: to which the margin between the reserves booked and the Valuation of outstanding claims liabilities is the area requiring actuarial best estimate was determined consistently with the most significant judgement in the Financial Statements.
prior periods and in line with the reserving methodology.
The Group maintains reserves to cover the estimated cost of Test of detail: For individual large bodily injury claims, we settling all existing and expected future claims with respect to evaluated the level of review, oversight and third party losses or injuries, whether or not those losses or injuries have evidence available and the frequency of updates against been reported to the Group as at the balance sheet date.
Benchmarking: Large bodily injury claims we challenged Estimating the reserves required for claims incurred but not the Groups estimate of the effect of potential changes in reported IBNR to the Group involves significant judgement the Ogden discount rate applied to bodily injury claims and and the use of actuarial and statistical projections.
whether the frequency assumption, sensitivity and development patterns were comparable to our actuarial benchmarks and the groups historical experience.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 114 | Corporate governance Independent auditors report continued Assessing transparency: We considered the adequacy of Our result the Groups disclosures regarding the degree of estimation We found the valuation of the Groups reinsurance assets uncertainty and the sensitivity of recognised amounts to to be acceptable 2017: acceptable changes in assumptions.
Key audit matter Our result Recoverability of the cost of investment in subsidiaries We found the valuation of the outstanding claims 1,275.7 million: 2017: 1,274.3 million liabilities to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Refer to page 171 accounting policies and page 172 financial disclosures.
Key audit matter Reinsurance assets 951.0 million: 2017: 840.2 million The risk Refer to page 76 Audit Committee Report, page 126 Low risk, high value accounting policies and page 150 financial disclosures.
The carrying amount of the Parent Companys investments in subsidiaries represents 99.91% of the Companys total assets The risk as at 31 December 2018.
Subjective valuation: As part of the Groups overall risk mitigation, the Group Their recoverability is not at a high risk of significant purchases quota share and non-proportional excess of loss misstatement or subject to significant judgement.
The valuation of outstanding claims liabilities due to their materiality in the context of its Parent Company recoverable from reinsurers is dependent on, but not directly Financial Statements, this is considered to be the area that correlated to, the valuation of outstanding claims liabilities.
had the greatest effect on our overall Parent Company audit.
The risk of default by a reinsurer is a significant inherent risk.
If Our response any reinsurer fails to pay the Group, or fails to pay on a timely Our procedures included: basis, the Group could experience significant losses.
Though Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of 100% of the Group spreads its reinsurance cover across a panel of investments with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance different reinsurers, the Group bears credit risk to each sheet to identify whether their net assets, being an counterparty, especially to longer term assets arising as a approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were result of recoveries from IBNR and periodic payment order in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether claims reserves.
those subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.
Our response Our sector experience: For the investments where the Our procedures included: carrying amount exceeded the net asset value, comparing Control re-performance: We tested the process and the carrying amount of the investment with the expected controls over the approval of new reinsurance contracts in value of the business based on a suitable multiple of the order to support the recognition of a reinsurance asset.
Control observation: We tested the monitoring of controls Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work over the credit ratings of the panel of reinsurers to assess performed by the subsidiary audit teams on all of those the risk of default.
subsidiaries and considering the results of that work, on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
Our actuarial experience: We used our own actuarial specialists to assess the reasonability of the reserves for Our result reinsurance recoveries by considering the historical We found the Companys assessment of the reinsurance recovery ratios whilst taking into consideration recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries changes in the underlying reinsurance programme.
Risk of default assessment: We assessed the risk of default of the panel of reinsurers based on credit ratings provided by rating agencies.
We checked the post period end receipts of reinsurance receivables to provide evidence over the recoverability of certain of the year end reinsurance assets.
Test of detail: We obtained third party confirmation of the contractual arrangements in place between the Group and the reinsurer and reported claims amounts with the reinsurance broker.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 115 3.
O ur application of materiality and an 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern overview of the scope of our audit The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as set at 6.3m 2017: 6.5m, determined with reference to a they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also 4.1% 2017: 4.6% of Group profit before tax.
concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of whole was set at 5.0m 2017: 3.1m which represents 0.4% of the financial statements the going concern period.
total assets 2017: 4.6% of profit before tax.
This represents a change from last year where the benchmark was profit before Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of tax.
We have assessed that total assets is an appropriate the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material benchmark as the main balance in the financial statements of uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to the parent company is investments in subsidiaries.
that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.3m 2017: were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of 0.3m, in addition to other identified misstatements that reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report is warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue in operation.
Of the groups 8 2017: 10 reporting components, we subjected 8 2017: 10 to full scope audits for group purposes.
In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered The components within the scope of our work accounted for the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business 100% of Group revenue, Group profit before tax and Group model and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups net assets.
These audits were undertaken by the Group audit and Companys financial resources or ability to continue team with the exception of two components being Advantage operations over the going concern period.
The risks that we Insurance Company Limited AICL and Conquest House considered most likely to adversely affect the Companys Limited, where the audit was undertaken by overseas available financial resources over this period were: component auditor who reported back to the Group adverse insurance reserves development: audit team.
a deterioration in the valuation of the Group and Companys The Group audit team instructed the overseas component investments.
auditor, KPMG Gibraltar, as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks and the information to be As these were risks that could potentially cast significant reported back.
doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, we considered sensitivities over the level of available financial The Group team agreed the AICL component performance resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking materiality of 5.0m 2017: 4.8m, which was also applied by account of reasonably possible but not unrealistic adverse all components for the audit for group reporting purposes.
effects that could arise from these risks individually and collectively and evaluated the achievability of the actions the The Group team visited KPMG Gibraltar during 2018 and 2019 Directors consider they would take to improve the position to discuss the significant audit risks, findings and also to should the risks materialise.
We also considered less complete a file review.
Telephone conference meetings and predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as the regular meetings with the members of the component audit impact of Brexit and the erosion of customer or supplier team in the UK were also held with KPMG Gibraltar confidence, which could result in a rapid reduction of available throughout the year.
Profit before tax PBT Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: 2017: Total revenues we have anything material to add or draw attention to in 153m PBT relation to the Directors statement in Note 1 to the financial 2016: 149m Group Materiality statements on the use of the going concern basis of Total revenues 6.3m 2017: 6.5m accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast 6.3m Whole financial significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that statements materiality basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of 2017: 6.5m approval of the financial statements: or 5.0m Component performance the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on materiality 2017: 4.8m page 57 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee 2017: 0.3m 0.3m Profit before tax Group materiality Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 116 | Corporate governance Independent auditors report continued Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context 5.
W e have nothing to report on the other of only the knowledge acquired during our financial information in the Annual Report statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or The Directors are responsible for the other information conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes presented in the Annual Report together with the Financial that are inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at Statements.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not the time they were made, the absence of anything to report cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, and Companys longer term viability.
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Corporate governance disclosures Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in We are required to report to you if: doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements we have identified material inconsistencies between the audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or knowledge we acquired during our financial statements inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our audit audit and the Directors statement that they consider that knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified the annual report and Financial Statements taken as a material misstatements in the other information.
whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Strategic Report and Directors Report Groups position and performance, business model and Based solely on our work on the other information: strategy: or we have not identified material misstatements in the the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters in our opinion the information given in those reports communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
for the financial year is consistent with the Financial Statements: and We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the in our opinion those reports have been prepared in eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code accordance with the Companies Act 2006. specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
Directors Remuneration Report We have nothing to report in these respects.
In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 6.
W e have nothing to report on the the Companies Act 2006. other matters on which we are Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability required to report by exception Based on the knowledge we acquired during our Financial Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to Statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw you if, in our opinion: attention to in relation to: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not page 33, that they have carried out a robust assessment of been received from branches not visited by us: or the principal risks facing the Group, including those that the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and law are not made: or the Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how we have not received all the information and explanations they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what we require for our audit.
period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether We have nothing to report in these respects.
they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 117 Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and 7.
Respective responsibilities regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could Directors responsibilities have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 60, financial statements, for instance through the imposition of the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the fines or litigation or the loss of the Groups licence to operate.
Financial Statements including being satisfied that they give a We identified the following areas as those most likely to have true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is such an effect: regulatory capital and liquidity and certain necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements aspects of company and corporate tax legislation recognising that are free from material misstatement, whether due to the financial and regulated nature of the Groups activities.
fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to matters related to going concern: and using the going concern enquiry of the Directors and other management and basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have Through these procedures, we identified actual or suspected no realistic alternative but to do so.
non-compliance and considered the effect as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
The Auditors responsibilities identified actual or suspected non-compliance was not Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about sufficiently significant to our audit to result in our response whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from being identified as a key audit matter.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in misstatements in the financial statements, even though we accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be from the events and transactions reflected in the financial expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures on the basis of the financial statements.
required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, FRCs website at www.
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing Irregularities ability to detect non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect nonWe identified areas of laws and regulations that could compliance with all laws and regulations.
reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector 8.
T he purpose of our audit work and to experience, through discussion with the Directors and other whom we owe our responsibilities management as required by auditing standards and from This report is made solely to the Companys members, inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the correspondence and discussed with the Directors and other Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so management the policies and procedures regarding that we might state to the Companys members those matters compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for identified laws and regulations throughout our team and no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we remained alert to any indications of non-compliance do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than throughout the audit.
This included communication from the the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our group to component audit teams of relevant laws and audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
regulations identified at group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the Salim Tharani financial statements varies considerably.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial Chartered Accountants reporting legislation including related companies legislation, 15 Canada Square distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation and we London E14 5GL assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial 27 February 2019 statement items.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc Financial statements Consolidated statement ofprofit or loss 119 Consolidated statement ofcomprehensive income 120 Consolidated balance sheet 121 Consolidated statement ofchanges in equity 122 Consolidated statement ofcash flows 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 124 Parent Company balance sheet 167 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 168 Parent Company statement of cash flows 169 Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 170 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 119 Consolidated statement of profit or loss for the year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Underlying Non-trading Underlying Non-trading 1 1 trading items Total trading items Total Note m m m m m m Gross written premiums 6 958.3 958.3 930.8 930.8 Gross earned premiums 6 949.9 949.9 856.1 856.1 Earned premiums ceded to reinsurers 6 509.2 509.2 446.0 446.0 Net earned premiums 6 440.7 440.7 410.1 410.1 Other revenue 7 308.7 308.7 298.7 298.7 Investment and interest income 8 7.0 7.0 6.8 6.8 Net revenue 756.4 756.4 715.6 715.6 Claims incurred 9 774.6 774.6 786.9 786.9 Reinsurers share of claims incurred 9 444.0 444.0 487.4 487.4 Net claims incurred 9 330.6 330.6 299.5 299.5 Acquisition costs 74.6 74.6 64.9 64.9 Other expenses 10 160.6 160.6 167.1 167.1 2 Adjusted operating profit 190.6 184.1 Amortisation and depreciation 10 7.5 21.5 29.0 5.5 21.5 27.0 Finance costs 14 8.5 0.2 8.7 7.8 0.3 8.1 Profit before tax 174.6 21.7 152.9 170.8 21.8 149.0 Taxation expense 15 26.1 3.8 22.3 26.2 3.9 22.3 Total profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent 148.5 17.9 130.6 144.6 17.9 126.7 Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the parent expressed in pence per share Basic earnings per share 16 19.9p 19.3p Diluted earnings per share 16 19.8p 19.2p All results arose from continuing operations.
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
1 Non-trading items are defined as expenses or earnings that are not representative of the underlying activities of the Group and include reorganisation, refinancing and transaction costs and the impact of accounting for business combinations as described in Note 11.
2 Adjusted operating profit represents profit before taxation expense, finance costs, amortisation and depreciation and non-trading costs.
This is a non-IFRS measure used by management to measure the underlying trading of the business and is provided for information.
Annual Report 2018 Hastings Group Holdings plc 120 | Financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 Note m m Total profit attributable to the equity holders of the parent 130.6 126.7 Other comprehensive income Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Fair value loss on available for sale investments 25 6.8 2.0 Total items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss 6.8 2.0 Items that may not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Revaluation loss on property 0.4 0.1 Total items that may not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss 0.4 0.1 Total other comprehensive loss 7.2 2.1 Total comprehensive income attributable to the equity holders of the parent 123.4 124.6 The accompanying Notes form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2018
