Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 46 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST PLC OPINION the directors statement set out on page 40 in the annual We have audited the financial statements of Herald report about whether they considered it appropriate to Investment Trust plc the Company for the year ended adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing 31 December 2018 which comprise the Income Statement, them, and their identification of any material uncertainties the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Changes in Equity, the to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 20, including at least twelve months from the date of approval of the a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial financial statements: reporting framework that has been applied in their whether the directors statement in relation to going preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance Accounting Standards including FRS 102 The Financial with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the directors explanation set out on page 33 in the Practice.
annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and In our opinion, the financial statements: why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their give a true and fair view of the Companys affairs as at statement as to whether they have a reasonable 31 December 2018 and of its loss for the year then ended: expectation that the entity will be able to continue in have been properly prepared in accordance with United operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary have been prepared in accordance with the requirements qualifications or assumptions.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Key audit matters Incomplete or inaccurate revenue recognition.
Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Incorrect valuation and defective title of the Our responsibilities under those standards are further investment portfolio.
described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Overall materiality of 9.0m which represents Materiality financial statements section of our report below.
independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial KEY AUDIT MATTERS statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional applied to public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these financial statements of the current period and include the requirements.
most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we We have nothing to report in respect of the following do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 33 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 33 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 47 Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Incomplete or inaccurate revenue We performed the following procedures: The results of our procedures to test recognition 11.3m 2017: 10.8m.
investment income identified no issues We obtained an understanding of The with the occurrence, measurement or Bank of New York Mellon International As described in Accounting policies page completeness of investment income.
Limited the Administrator processes and 56 : and Note 2 page 57 to the financial controls for the recognition of investment statements.
The Company has reported We concurred with the accounting treatment income by performing walkthrough investment income of 11.3m 2017: 10.8m.
adopted for a sample of special dividends.
procedures, reviewing the Administrators Special dividend income for the year amounted internal control reports and discussing with to 0.2m, of which all was treated as revenue Based on the work performed, we had nothing Herald Investment Management Limited 2017: 0.4m of which 0.3m was treated as to communicate.
the Manager the governance structure revenue and 0.1m was treated as capital.. and protocols for oversight of investment income recognition.
Special dividends by their nature require the For a sample of dividend receipts, we exercise of judgment as to whether the income agreed dividends received from the income received should be classified as revenue or report to an independent pricing source capital for Section 1158 of the Corporation for occurrence and measurement.
For special dividends agreed this sample to the bank statement the Company determines whether amounts to test the receipt of the income.
should be credited to the revenue or capital columns of the Income Statement based on We agreed all accrued dividends at the underlying substance of the transaction.
the period end to the Custodian and Depositary statements, an independent We focus on the recognition of revenue and its pricing source, and post year-end broker presentation in the financial statements as it is statements.
There is a risk that For one special dividend received during an incorrect classification of revenue in the the year, we reviewed its recognition basis Income Statement could potentially result in to ensure it was appropriately allocated the mis-representation of financial information between revenue and capital within the to shareholders and put the Companys Income Statement.
investment trust status at risk.
We corroborated the appropriateness of journal entry adjustments made in relation Specifically, in relation to our procedures to investment income in the preparation over management override, we consider of the financial statements with source the risk that inappropriate journal entries are documentation.
applied to the income account resulting in a manipulation of the Companys revenue to support performance targets.
Valuation and defective title of the We performed the following procedures: The results of our procedures on existence of investment portfolio.
investments identified no material errors in the We obtained an understanding of the reconciliation.
Administrators systems and controls in As described in Accounting policies relation to investments by performing a page 56 : and Note 9 page 60 to the The results of our procedures on the valuation walkthrough, reviewing the Administrators financial statements.
of the total investment portfolio identified no internal control reports and discussing with material error.
the Manager the governance structure and Investments held at the year-end were valued protocols for oversight of the valuation for at 832m 2017: 926m.
Quoted investments Based on the work performed, we have no investments.
held at the year-end were 816m 2017: 913m.
We agreed the existence for 100% of the quoted and unquoted investment portfolio Unquoted investments held at the year-end to third-party confirmations.
were 16m comprising 1.9% of the total investment portfolio 2017: 13m comprising We reviewed the year end reconciliation 1.6% of the total investment portfolio.
of the Companys records to those of the Custodian and Depositary and confirmed The valuation of the assets held in the all reconciling items were appropriate.
investment portfolio is the key driver of the Companys net asset value and investment For quoted investments: return.
Incorrect asset pricing or a failure to We compared the prices of 100% of maintain proper legal title of assets by the the quoted investment portfolio to an Company could have a significant impact on independent pricing source.
portfolio valuation and, therefore, the return We recalculated the value of quoted generated for shareholders.
investments in foreign currencies to verify the accuracy of the corresponding sterling balances based upon exchange rates from an external source.
For unquoted investments: For a sample of 5 positions representing 86% of their balance, we reviewed managements methodology for determining the fair value of the investments is consistent with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Guidelines, agreed the inputs into the valuation to third party sources such as financial statements of the issuer, investor reports and the instrument terms and re-performed calculations to confirm their arithmetical accuracy.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 48 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST PLC AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT OTHER INFORMATION TAILORING THE SCOPE The other information comprises the information included Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality in the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 45, other than and our allocation of performance materiality determine our the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
audit scope for the company.
This enables us to form an The directors are responsible for the other information.
opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the company and Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the other information and, except to the extent otherwise the business environment when assessing the level of work explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form to be performed.
All audit work was performed directly by of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing so, consider whether the other information is materially the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or Materiality apparent material misstatements, we are required to The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, determine whether there is a material misstatement in the individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be financial statements or a material misstatement of the other expected to influence the economic decisions of the users information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
information, we are required to report that fact.
We determined materiality for the company to be We have nothing to report in this regard.
9.0million 2017: 9.7million, which is 1% 2017: 1% of shareholders funds.
We have derived our materiality In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard calculation based on a proportion of shareholders funds to our responsibility to specifically address the following as it is the most important financial metric on which items in the other information and to report as uncorrected shareholders judge the performance of the Company.
material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 39 materiality and made no changes to the basis of calculation the statement given by the directors that they consider from our original assessment at the planning stage.
the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Performance materiality the information necessary for shareholders to assess the The application of materiality at the individual account or companys performance, business model and strategy, is balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected the audit: or and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
Audit committee reporting set out on page 39 the section describing the work of the audit committee On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our does not appropriately address matters communicated by assessment of the companys overall control environment, us to the audit committee: or our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% Directors statement of compliance with the UK 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 6.8m 2017: Corporate Governance Code set out on page 38 7.2m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage the parts of the directors statement required under due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in Given the importance of the distinction between revenue accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly and capital for the Company we have also applied a separate disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK testing threshold of 0.5m 2017: 0.5m for the revenue Corporate Governance Code.
column of the Income Statement, being the reporting threshold.
OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 Reporting threshold In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report An amount below which identified misstatements are to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.5m of the audit: 2017: 0.5m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, the information given in the strategic report and the warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both financial statements: and the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above the strategic report and directors reports have been and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 49 MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT determined that the most significant are the Companies BY EXCEPTION Act 2006, the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Transparency Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code company and its environment obtained in the course of the 2016 and section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the We understood how Herald Investment Trust plc is strategic report or directors report.
complying with those frameworks through discussions with the Audit Committee and company secretary, and review of We have nothing to report in respect of the following the Companys documented policies and procedures.
matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 Based on this understanding we designed our audit requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws adequate accounting records have not been kept, or and regulations.
Our procedures involved review of the returns adequate for our audit have not been received reporting to the Directors with respect to the application from branches not visited by us: or of the documented policies and procedures and review the financial statements and the part of the Directors of the financial statements to ensure compliance with the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement reporting requirements of the Company.
with the accounting records and returns: or We have reviewed that the Companys control certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified environment is adequate for the size and operating by law are not made: or model of such a listed investment company.
we have not received all the information and explanations We assessed the susceptibility of the financial statements to we require for our audit.
material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the key risks impacting the financial statements.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS We identified a fraud risk with respect to management As explained more fully in the statement of directors override in relation to inappropriate revenue journals.
responsibilities set out on page 45, the directors are We noted no issues in agreeing a sample of revenue responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and journal entries back to the corresponding announcements for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for prepared from the investee companies.
such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are A further description of our responsibilities for the audit free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
uk In preparing the financial statements, the directors are .
This description forms part of responsible for assessing the companys ability to continue as our auditors report.
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting OTHER MATTERS WE ARE REQUIRED TO ADDRESS unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to We were appointed by the company on 16 June 1994 cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 1994 and subsequent financial periods.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE The period of total uninterrupted engagement including FINANCIAL STATEMENTS previous renewals and reappointments is 25 years, covering Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about the years ending 31 December 1994 to 31 December 2018. whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the company and we remain issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee independent of the company in conducting the audit.
that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could USE OF OUR REPORT reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions This report is made solely to the companys members, of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so EXPLANATION AS TO WHAT EXTENT THE AUDIT WAS that we might state to the companys members those matters CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for INCLUDING FRAUD no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the company and the companys members as a body, for our the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and Ashley Coups Senior statutory auditor implementing appropriate responses: and to respond for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during London the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the 19 February 2019 prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
The maintenance and integrity of the Herald Investment Trust plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not Our approach was as follows: involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
frameworks that are applicable to the Company and 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 50 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements 52 Income Statement 53 Balance Sheet 54 Statement of Changes in Equity 55 Cash Flow Statement 56 Notes to the Financial Statements 68 Notice of Annual General Meeting 70 Further Shareholder Information 72 Alternative Performance Measures Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2018 51
