Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Independent auditors report to the members of HgCapital Trust plc Opinion Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of HgCapital In our opinion, the financial statements: Trust plc the company for the year ended 31 December give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys 2018 which comprise the Income statement, Balance affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of its net return for sheet, Statement of cash flows, Statement of changes in the year then ended: equity and notes to the financial statements, including a have been properly prepared in accordance with United summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and reporting framework that has been applied in their have been prepared in accordance with the preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion the Directors confirmation, set out on page 16 of the Annual Report, that they have carried out a robust We conducted our audit in accordance with International assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
including those that would threaten its business model, Our responsibilities under those standards are further future performance, solvency or liquidity: described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Directors Statement, set out on page 16 of the the financial statements section of our report.
financial statements, about whether the Directors 97 97 We are independent of the Company in accordance with considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs and the Directors identification of any material Ethical Standard as applied to public interest entities, and uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in so over a period of at least twelve months from the date accordance with these requirements.
of approval of the financial statements: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained whether the Directors Statement relating to going is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance our opinion.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Conclusions relating to principal risks, the Directors explanation, set out on page 16 of the Annual going concern and viability statement Report, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the We have nothing to report in respect of the following Company, over what period they have done so and why they information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that anything material to add or draw attention to: the Company will be able to continue in operation and the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 16 meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their to 18 that describe the principal risks and explain how assessment, including any related disclosures drawing they are being managed or mitigated: attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Overall materiality: 15,373,000, which represent Existence of unquoted investments, and approximately 2% of the companys net assets.
Revenue recognition Key audit matters were identified as Our audit approach was a risk based substantive audit Valuation of unquoted investments focused on the investment activities of the company.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation professional judgment, were of most significance in our of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the audit of the financial statements of the current period and engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the include the most significant assessed risks of material context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide identified.
These matters included those that had the a separate opinion on these matters.
Key Audit Matter: Valuation of unquoted investments Unquoted investments are the largest asset class in the adjustments applicable to market multiples.
financial statements of the Company.
These subjective judgements introduce a risk that the fair Valuation of unquoted investments includes a number of value measurements of these unquoted companies may judgements such as the valuation methodology to be not be accurate.
applied and key assumptions to be used.
We therefore identified valuation of unquoted investments These key assumptions include the maintainable earnings, as a significant risk, which was one of the most significant a selection of a set of comparable listed companies and assessed risks of material misstatement.
How the matter was addressed in the audit 98 98 Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: 1. assessed the appropriateness of the adjustments made to earnings to arrive at a maintainable position: Documenting and assessing the design and implementation of the investment valuation process 2. challenged the Manager on the selection of and the controls in place at the Manager: comparable listed companies as well as completeness of this basket by identifying alternative potential Attending the Audit and Valuations Committee meetings comparable companies: and during the period where we received detailed updates on investments from the Manager and observed the 3. challenged the investment manager on the discounts committees effective review and challenge of unquoted applied to the market multiples investment valuations: Tested the significant inputs to a sample of unquoted Conducting procedures to satisfy ourselves of the valuations by agreeing key information such as revenue, qualifications and expertise of the Manager to prepare earnings and capital structure to information provided investment valuations for the Company: by the underlying businesses and checking the arithmetical accuracy: and Obtaining an understanding of matters that may affect the fair value of the unquoted investments through Reviewed the crosschecking to alternative valuation discussions with the Manager and independent research methods prepared by the Manager.
into investee companies and industry trends: The companys accounting policy on valuation of unquoted Assessing the appropriateness of the valuation investments is shown in note 3 to the financial statements methodologies used and whether the valuations were and related disclosures are included in note 12.
The Audit performed in accordance with International Private and Valuation Committee identified valuation of unquoted Equity and Venture Capital valuation guidelines investments as a key area of attention in its report on and FRS 102: page 116 where the Audit and Valuations Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this issue.
Using the experience and expertise of our internal valuation specialists, we tested the appropriateness Key observations of the key assumptions used in the valuations.
Our audit work did not identify any material misstatements Specifically, we: concerning the valuation of unquoted investments.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Independent auditors report continued Key Audit Matter: Existence of unquoted investments The company holds significant investments in unquoted over these investments may not exist through the fund companies through several fund limited partnerships, partnerships in which it invests.
An error in the holdings as disclosed in note 3 of the financial statements.
could materially impact the Companys net assets.
These investments represent the largest class of assets We therefore identified existence of unquoted investments of the Company.
as a significant risk, which was one of the most significant There is a risk that the beneficial rights of the Company assessed risks of material misstatement.
How the matter was addressed in the audit Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: partnerships to the underlying agreements and independent administrator confirmations.
In addition, Documenting and assessing the design and we agreed the underlying instruments held to share implementation of controls and processes in place at the certificates and other supporting documentation.
Investment Manager around the ownership of investments held by the Company: The companys accounting policy on recognition of investments is shown in note 3 to the financial statements Testing of material additions and disposals within the and related disclosures are included in note 12. portfolio companies to supporting documentation such as the Sales and Purchase agreements: and Key observations Our audit work did not identify any material misstatements Testing the beneficial rights to investments by verifying concerning the existence of investments.
the proportion held through the fund limited 99 99 Key Audit Matter: Revenue recognition The company is subject to Investment Trust Company ITC There is a risk that income recognised in the year may be regulations and as a result is required to allocate returns materially misstated through fraudulent transactions and between revenue and capital.
During the year, the error.
This could also impact the level of distribution Company has recognised income of 17 million required under ITC regulations.
2017:23 million in revenue and 94 million We therefore identified revenue recognition as a significant 2017:110 million in capital.
risk, which was one of the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement.
How the matter was addressed in the audit Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: Recalculating the revenue recognised in accordance with the underlying agreements and checking the accuracy of Assessing the design and implementation of processes in the gains and losses recognised on investments in the year.
relation to revenue recognition by walking through the controls and processes in place: The Companys accounting policy on revenue recognition is shown in note 3 to the financial statements and related Assessing whether the Companys accounting policies in disclosures are included in note 4. relation to revenue recognition are in compliance with FRS 102 and the Statement of Recommended Practice Key observations issues by the Association of Investment Companies Our audit work did not identify any material misstatements AIC SORP : and concerning revenue recognition.
HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements Financial statements Independent auditors report continued Our application of materiality statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person In connection with our audit of the financial statements, would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality in our responsibility is to read the other information and, determining the nature, timing and extent of our work in doing so, consider whether the other information is and in evaluating the results of that work.
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears We determined materiality for the audit of the financial to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material statements as a whole to be 15,373,000, which is inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, approximately 2% of the Companys net assets.
This we are required to determine whether there is a material benchmark is considered the most appropriate because misstatement in the financial statements or a material it represents a key financial metric used to measure the misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the performance of the Company and is of primary interest work we have performed, we conclude that there is a to the users of the financial statements.
material misstatement of this other information, we are Materiality for the current year is higher than the level that required to report that fact.
was determined for the year ended 31 December 2017, We have nothing to report in this regard.
reflecting an increase in the value of net assets in the year.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to We use a different level of materiality, performance our responsibility to specifically address the following items materiality, to drive the extent of our testing and this was in the other information and to report as uncorrected set at 75% of financial statement materiality.
We also material misstatements of the other information where we determine a lower level of materiality for areas such as conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Directors remuneration.
Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 110 We determined the threshold at which we will 10 10 00 the statement given by the Directors that they consider communicate misstatements to the Audit & Valuation the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a Committee to be 769,000.
In addition, we will whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides communicate misstatements below that threshold that, the information necessary for shareholders to assess the in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Companys performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained An overview of the scope of our audit in the audit: or Our audit approach was a riskbased approach founded Audit & Valuation Committee reporting set out on on a thorough understanding of the Companys business, its environment and risk profile.
As part of the planning of page 115 the section describing the work of the Audit & Valuation Committee does not appropriately address the engagement, we attended periodic Audit and Valuation Committee meetings in order to document our matters communicated by us to the Audit & Valuation Committee: or understanding of the valuation process.
In addition, we undertook walkthroughs of the systems and controls in Directors statement of compliance with the UK place prior to the commencement of our audit in order Corporate Governance Code set out on page 111 to assess the effectiveness of the internal controls.
the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance Other information with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing The Directors are responsible for the other information.
provisions specified for review by the auditor in The other information comprises the information included in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial Corporate Governance Code.
Our opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration Directors report for the financial year for which the report to be audited has been properly prepared in financial statements are prepared is consistent with accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the financial statements: and In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the the strategic report and the Directors report have course of the audit: been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
the information given in the strategic report and the HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Strategic report Hgs review Financial statements Corporate governance Further information Independent auditors report continued Matter on which we are required to report under Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are the Companies Act 2006 considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Company and its environment obtained in the course of financial statements.
the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We are responsible for obtaining reasonable assurance that the financial statements taken as a whole are free from Matters on which we are required to report material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
by exception Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an We have nothing to report in respect of the following unavoidable risk that material misstatements of the matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 financial statements may not be detected, even though the requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: audit is properly planned and performed in accordance with the ISAs UK.
Our audit approach is a riskbased adequate accounting records have not been kept, or approach and is explained more fully in the An overview of returns adequate for our audit have not been received the scope of our audit section of our audit report.
from branches not visited by us: or A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and the part of the Directors the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Councils website at: www.
with the accounting records and returns: or This description forms part of our auditors report.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Other matters which we are required to address we have not received all the information and We were appointed by the Board and approved at the explanations we require for our audit.
Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017.
The period of 10 10 11 total uninterrupted engagement including previous Responsibilities of Directors for the renewals and reappointments of the firm is 2 years.
financial statements The nonaudit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Standard were not provided to the Company and we Statement set out on page 110, the Directors are remain independent of the Company in conducting responsible for the preparation of the financial statements our audit.
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report and for such internal control as the Directors determine is to the Audit & Valuation Committee.
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to Use of our report fraud or error.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters so that we might state to the Companys members those related to going concern and using the going concern basis matters we are required to state to them in an auditors of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic permitted by law, we do not accept or assume alternative but to do so.
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from Marcus Swales material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and Senior Statutory Auditor to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs London UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
8 March 2019 HgCapital Trust plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2018
