Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Opinion As explained in note 2 to the financial statements, the Group, in In our opinion: addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC's Group financial statements and Board IASB.
Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
the year then ended Basis for opinion the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities as adopted by the European Union under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
'Reduced Disclosure Framework', and applicable law Independence the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Report, which comprise: the consolidated and parent Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2018: the consolidated income To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit statement and statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided cash flow statement, and the consolidated and parent Company to the Group or the Company.
statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the Other than those disclosed in note 7 to the financial statements, significant accounting policies.
we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 109 Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC continued Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: $17 million 2017: $14 million, based on 5% of profit before tax after adding back the following exceptional and other items: research and development costs relating to generic Advair Diskus, restructuring costs as a result of the closure of the Eatontown, New Jersey manufacturing plant Materiality and the re-measurement of acquisition-related liabilities.
Overall Company materiality: capped at $10 million 2017: $10 million, but calculated based on 1% of total assets.
Our audit included full scope audits of seven components, audit procedures on specific financial statement line items of one component and audit procedures performed centrally over specific material Audit scope balances at other locations around the world.
Taken together the above procedures account for 84% of consolidated revenue, 75% of consolidated profit before tax and 83% of consolidated total assets.
Recoverability of the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill Group.
Key audit Recognition and measurement of accruals for chargebacks, rebates and returns in the US Group.
matters Recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions and recoverability of deferred tax assets Group.
No key audit matters specific to the Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC parent Company financial statements were identified.
The scope of our audit challenging assumptions made by management in their significant As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed accounting estimates in particular in relation to estimation of rebate the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
and return accruals, impairment of intangible assets, and the In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective recognition and measurement of litigation and contingent liabilities judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates and uncertain tax provisions see related key audit matters below that involved making assumptions and considering future events that identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal are inherently uncertain.
entries posted with unusual account combinations, journals posted by senior management, journals posted and reviewed by the same Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud individual and consolidation journals Based on our understanding of the Group and the industry in which it operates, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above with laws and regulations related to regulations set out by the United and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is States Food and Drug Administration the FDA and other industry from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, regulators, defence of products, pricing and practices legislation, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not taxation and anti-bribery and corruption legislation, and we considered detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements misrepresentations, or through collusion.
such as the Companies Act 2006.
Key audit matters We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were statements of the current period and include the most significant related to posting inappropriate journal entries to manipulate financial assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud results and management bias in accounting estimates.
The Group identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were the Group engagement team and or component auditors included: addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a discussions with management and the Groups legal counsel, separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks including consideration of known or suspected instances of identified by our audit.
non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud assessment of matters reported on the Groups whistleblowing helpline and results of managements investigation of such matters 110 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Recoverability of the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill Group Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter At 31 December 2018, the Group had goodwill of $279 million and intangible We assessed the determination of the CGUs identified for the impairment assets of $487 million 31 December 2017: $282 million and $503 million, calculation by considering the CGUs previously used as well as from our respectively comprising customer relationships, product-related intangible understanding of the business and how it is monitored.
assets, software and other identified intangible assets.
This is contained within With support from our valuations specialists, we obtained the Groups three cash generating units CGUs.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, the impairment analyses and tested the integrity of the calculations, Group recorded $1,105 million as an exceptional impairment charge primarily reasonableness of key assumptions, including product profit and cash as a result of uncertainty in the generics market and the delay in approval of flow growth or decline, terminal values and discount rates.
We challenged its application for its generic version of Advair Diskus.
management to substantiate its assumptions, including comparing relevant All CGUs containing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets must be assumptions to industry forecasts.
The Group is also required to complete an We performed the following procedures on the Groups impairment analyses, impairment review of its portfolio of finite-lived intangible assets where there with significant involvement from senior engagement team members: are indicators of impairment.
Additionally, the Group must consider whether there are indicators of impairment reversal at each reporting date.
corroborated the information to Board reviewed budgets and forecasts The determination of carrying values requires judgement on the part of understood managements process for forecasting cash flows, which management in identifying and then estimating the higher of the value is underpinned by models that include a product-by-product analysis.
in use and a fair value less costs to dispose for the relevant CGUs.
These We challenged managements market and pricing assumptions by comparing amounts are based on managements view of future cash flow forecasts and them to historical and third party market data.
We also utilised our valuations external market conditions such as future pricing, probability of technical and specialists to identify any anomalies or trends that warranted further regulatory success and the most appropriate discount rate.
There is a risk that investigation and corroboration the carrying value of intangible assets may be higher than the recoverable for the Groups In Process Research & Development IPRD in 2018 we amount.
Additionally, there is judgement in relation to triggering the reversals corroborated products included in the valuation model to minutes from the of impairments recognised in previous periods as IAS 36 states that impairment Product Review Committee meetings, where decisions on pipeline and IPRD losses are reversed if there has been an event or trigger that indicates a opportunities are made significant, discrete and sustained change.
in respect of costs and resulting profit margins in managements model, We focused on the intangible assets in the Generics CGU, to assess if there we challenged management on forecasted trends and assumed cost savings were any significant changes in estimates relating to the external market in the context of the Groups plans for ongoing product development, conditions.
We further focused specifically on the business plan cash flows and maintenance of its manufacturing facilities via capital expenditure and other assumptions in the current financial year.
No impairment charges or reversals investment and plans for organic growth of previously recognised impairment charges were recorded in the year.
performed look back testing to understand how accurate management had Refer to notes 3 and 16 in the Group financial statements and the Audit been in its previous forecasting Committee review of areas of significant judgement on page 74. we recalculated the weighted average cost of capital and considered if the amount was within a reasonable range We consider managements key assumptions to be within a reasonable range.
For those intangible assets including goodwill where management determined that no impairment was required, we found that these judgements were supportable.
We also obtained managements sensitivity analyses which showed the impact of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions.
We considered whether these were the key sensitivities and performed our own sensitivity analyses.
We considered managements policy around impairment reversal given the size of the impairment loss recognised in 2017.
We considered both the conditions in the US generics market and factors relating to generic Advair Diskus.
Based on our procedures, we concluded that reversing any of the prior year impairment charge was currently not appropriate.
This will continue to be monitored closely during 2019.
We also validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 16 of the financial statements.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 111 Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC continued Recognition and measurement of accruals for chargebacks, rebates and returns in the US Group Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Management is required to make certain judgements and estimates in We considered the Groups processes for making judgements in this area and respect of revenue recognition and specifically the level of chargebacks, performed the following procedures: returns and other revenue deductions that will be realised against the Groups we assessed applicable controls in place around this process, tested the nature revenue.
These estimates are material to the financial statements and involve of the pricing arrangements and the accuracy of calculations and agreed the judgement, hence the reason for inclusion as an area of focus.
rates in customer agreements with those used in managements calculations The largest of these estimates relates to revenue recognition, chargebacks, of the required reserves and deductions rebates and returns in the US for which the Group recorded revenue we obtained managements calculations for accruals under applicable deductions for the year ended 31 December 2018 of $2,057 million schemes and validated the assumptions used by reference to the Groups 2017: $1,933 million.
stated commercial policies, the terms of the applicable contracts and We focused on this area as rebates, discounts, allowances and returns historical levels of product returns arrangements and the deductions from gross revenue are complex and we compared the assumptions to contracted prices, historical rebates, because establishing an appropriate accrual requires significant estimation discounts, allowances and returns levels where relevant and to current by the Directors.
This judgement is complex in a US healthcare environment payment trends.
We also considered the historical accuracy of the Groups in which competitive pricing pressure and product discounting are trends.
estimates in previous years and the impact of competitive pricing pressures The Directors have determined an accrual of $409 million to be necessary and greater discounting in the US market more generally at 31 December 2018 2017: $388 million.
we formed an independent expectation of the largest elements of the reserve Refer to the Audit Committee review of areas of significant judgement at 31 December 2018 using third party data and compared this expectation page 74, significant accounting policies note 2, trade and other to the actual accrual recognised by the Group receivables note 21 and other current liabilities note 28.
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material differences between our independent expectations and the accrual recorded.
Recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions and recoverability of deferred tax assets Group Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions due to its geographic In conjunction with our UK, US, international tax and transfer pricing specialists, spread, resulting in complex cross-border tax arrangements.
As a result, it is we evaluated and challenged management's judgements in respect of estimates subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters involved in the determination of uncertain tax provisions and judgements taken during the normal course of business including transaction related tax matters in the measurement of deferred tax assets.
In understanding and evaluating management's judgement relating to the level Judgement is required in assessing the level of provisions required in respect of provisioning for uncertain tax positions, we considered the status of ongoing of uncertain tax positions.
At 31 December 2018, the Group has recorded tax authority audits, the outcome of previous tax authority audits, developments provisions of $53 million in respect of uncertain tax positions 2017: $61 million.
in the tax environment and external tax advice received by the Group, where relevant, to satisfy ourselves that the tax provisions had been appropriately In 2018 management has recorded an exceptional deferred tax credit of $43 recorded or adjusted to reflect the latest developments.
million relating to the 2017 impairment charge on US intangible assets.
This credit was not recognised in 2017 due to insufficient forecast taxable profits in In respect of deferred tax we considered whether deferred tax assets were the US to meet the recognition criteria in IAS 12.
At 31 December 2018, the total recoverable with reference to Board reviewed forecasts.
We ensured that these deferred tax asset was $125 million 2017: $135 million.
forecasts were consistent with those used for impairment testing see above.
We also challenged management on whether it is appropriate to now recognise Refer to notes 12 and 13 in the Group financial statements.
deferred tax assets in respect of the 2017 impairment charge.
We concur with management that, as a result of changes to the US business model due to an internal reorganisation, which increased US taxable profits principally in relation to the Injectables business, it is now sufficiently probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the tax relief arising on the 2017 impairment loss can be utilised.
Consequently we believe it is now appropriate to recognise a deferred tax asset.
We also considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in notes 12 and 13 to the financial statements.
Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material matters from our work.
112 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Financial statements How we tailored the audit scope The involvement of the Group audit team in the work of the component We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed auditors included conference calls, meetings with local management, enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements review of working papers, attendance at audit clearance meetings, as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the and other forms of communication as considered necessary depending Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry on the significance of the component and the extent of accounting and in which they operate.
Senior members of the Group audit team also visited the US and Jordan.
Procedures were performed prior to year-end to evaluate component procedures and controls, and visits were undertaken by senior team Taken together our audit work accounted for 84% of consolidated members to component locations, to refine the audit approach and revenue, 75% of consolidated profit before tax, 83% of total assets ensure sufficient oversight of component auditors.
and 73% of the adjusted profit measure we use as a basis for determining materiality.
As at 31 December 2018, Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC had in total 51 entities subsidiaries and associates as part of the Group.
Materiality These entities may operate solely in one segment but more commonly The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
Each territory component submits a Group We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together reporting package to Hikmas central accounting team including its with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of income and financial position prepared under Group accounting our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures policies which are in compliance with IFRSs.
We requested component on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and teams in the US Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. and West-Ward in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in Columbus Inc., Jordan Hikma Jordan, Saudi Arabia Hikma Al Jazeera aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Pharmaceuticals Industries, Algeria Hikma Pharma Algeria and Portugal Hikma Portugal to audit reporting packages of certain entities in these territories and report the results of their full scope audit work to us.
This work was supplemented by procedures over specific balances performed on Hikma Pharmaceuticals International Limited HPIL and procedures performed centrally including the consolidation, taxation and certain component balances not covered by local component teams.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality $17 million 2017: $14 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax after adding back the 1% of total assets.
This was capped at $10 million following exceptional and other items: research and 2017: $10 million, but calculated based on development costs relating to generic Advair Diskus, 1% of total assets.
restructuring costs as a result of the closure of the Eatontown, New Jersey manufacturing plant and the remeasurement of acquisition-related liabilities.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Groups principal measure of earnings is core The Company holds the Groups investments and profit.
Management believes that it reflects the performs treasury functions on behalf of the Group.
underlying performance of the Group and is a more The strength of the balance sheet is the key measure meaningful measure of the Groups performance.
of financial health that is important to shareholders We took this measure into account in determining since the primary concern for the parent Company our materiality but did not add back certain non-core is the payment of dividends and servicing of debt.
items unless we deemed them to be non-recurring in nature.
Our materiality would have been higher if we had adjusted for all non-core items.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between $1,500,000 and $10,000,000.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $850,000 Group audit 2017: $500,000 and $850,000 Company audit 2017: $500,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 113 Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC continued Strategic Report and Directors Report Going concern In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial Reporting obligation Outcome statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable We are required to report if we We have nothing material to add legal requirements.
CA06 have anything material to add or to draw attention to.
or draw attention to in respect In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company However, because not all future of the Directors statement in and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not events or conditions can be the financial statements about identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and predicted, this statement is not whether the Directors considered Directors Report.
CA06 a guarantee as to the Groups it appropriate to adopt the going and Companys ability to continue concern basis of accounting in Corporate Governance Statement as a going concern.
For example, preparing the financial statements In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the the terms on which the United and the Directors identification of audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement Kingdom may withdraw from any material uncertainties to the on pages 62 to 107 about internal controls and risk management the European Union, which is Groups and the Companys ability systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share currently due to occur on to continue as a going concern capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the 29 March 2019, are not clear, and over a period of at least twelve Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the it is difficult to evaluate all of the months from the date of approval FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been potential implications on the of the financial statements.
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 Groups and Companys trade, customers, suppliers and the In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company wider economy.
and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not We are required to report if the We have nothing to report.
identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 Directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance with In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement inconsistent with our knowledge on pages 62 to 107 with respect to the Companys corporate obtained in the audit.
governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
CA06 Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity form of assurance thereon.
of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, the Directors confirmation on page 58 of the Annual Report that they consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify performance, solvency or liquidity an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is explain how they are being managed or mitigated a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have the Directors explanation on page 61 of the Annual Report as to performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing period they have done so and why they consider that period to to report based on these responsibilities.
be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
to any necessary qualifications or assumptions Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
114 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 Financial statements We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, considering the Directors process supporting their statements: but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these obtained in the course of the audit.
Other Code Provisions A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
the statement given by the Directors, on page 107, that they Use of this report consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or course of performing our audit into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the section of the Annual Report on page 74 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters Other required reporting communicated by us to the Audit Committee Companies Act 2006 exception reporting the Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant in our opinion: provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Act 2006.
CA06 not visited by us or Responsibilities for the financial statements certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are and the audit not made or Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement set the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors out on page 107, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and accounting records and returns.
for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for appointed by the members on 11 May 2016 to audit the financial assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and subsequent concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is three using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either years, covering the years ended 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2018. intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 12 March 2019 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC | Annual Report 2018 115
