Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 To the members of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Independent Auditors Report 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Company Balance Sheet, Company Statement of Changes in Equity, Company Statement of Cash Flows, and the related notes, including the accounting policies on pages 100 to 108.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 19 March 1999.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 19 financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: 3.25m 2017:3.25m Group financial statements as a whole 4.6% 2017: 4.4% of Normalised profit before tax Coverage 96% 2017:96% of Group normalised profit before tax Key audit matters vs 2017 New risks The impact of uncertainties due to the UK exiting the European Union on our audit Recurring risks Valuation of goodwill in relation to France Galva S. A.
Provisions for uncertain income tax positions UK post retirement benefits obligation Carrying value of investments in subsidiary undertakings Parent Company only 2.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
92 Stock Code HILS Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 The risk Our response The impact of Unprecedented levels of uncertainty We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the uncertainties due to consideration of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning All audits assess and challenge the the UK exiting the and performing our audits.
Our procedures included: reasonableness of estimates and related European Union disclosures and the appropriateness of the Our Brexit knowledge We considered the directors going concern basis of preparation of the assessment of Brexit-related sources of risk for the Groups financial statements.
All of these depend business and financial resources compared with our own on assessments of the future economic understanding of the risks.
We considered the directors plans environment and the Groups future to take action to mitigate the risks.
Sensitivity analysis When addressing areas that depend In addition, we are required to consider the on forecasts, we compared the directors analysis to our other information presented in the Annual assessment of the full range of reasonably possible, scenarios Report including the principal risks disclosure resulting from Brexit uncertainty and, where forecast cash and the viability statement and to consider flows are required to be discounted, considered adjustments to the directors statement that the annual discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.
report and financial statements taken as a Assessing transparency We considered all of the Brexit whole is fair, balanced and understandable related disclosures together, including those in the strategic and provides the information necessary for report, comparing the overall picture against our understanding shareholders to assess the Groups position of the risks.
and performance, business model and strategy.
Our results Brexit is one of the most significant We found the estimates and related disclosures and disclosures economic events for the UK and at the in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit date of this report its effects are subject should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all to unprecedented levels of uncertainty of possible future implications for a company and this is particularly outcomes, with the full range of possible the case in relation to Brexit.
Valuation of Forecast based valuation Our procedures included: goodwill in relation Market conditions in France have been Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the groups to France Galva S. A. challenging for France Galva S. A. and as a assumptions to externally derived data in relation to projected 30.1 million: 2017: result there is limited headroom when testing growth and discount rates: 29.7 million this CGU for impairment, and that headroom Our sector experience: Evaluating the appropriateness is sensitive to the assumptions adopted.
and year on year consistency of underlying assumptions There are inherent uncertainties involved in determining the cash flows including considering the Refer to page 67 in forecasting and discounting future cash appropriateness of the growth assumption applied, comparison Audit Committee flows and relatively small changes in these of forecast cash flows to those achieved during the financial Report, page 105 assumptions could give rise to material year ended 31 December 2018 and challenging management accounting policy changes in the assessment of the carrying where such future cash flows are significantly higher than and pages 117 value of goodwill.
current levels or do not reflect known or probable changes in to 124 financial the business environment: disclosures.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that the Challenging, assisted by our own valuation specialists, the key value in use of goodwill has a high degree inputs used in the calculation of the discount rate by comparing of estimation uncertainty, with a potential it against external data sources and comparator group data: range of reasonable outcomes greater than Sensitivity analysis: Performing our own sensitivity analysis on our materiality for the financial statements the assumptions noted above: as a whole.
The financial statements note 10 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups Group.
disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill in relation to France Galva S. A.. Our results We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of goodwill in relation to France Galva S. A. to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
com 93 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued The risk Our response Provisions for Subjective estimate Our procedures included: uncertain income The Groups international operations result Our tax expertise: With the assistance of our own tax tax positions in transactions that impact multiple tax specialist, we: 8.3 million: 2017: jurisdictions.
This activity has led to the Assessed the Groups tax positions, its correspondence 7.8 million existence of a number of uncertain tax with the relevant tax authorities, and analysed and positions for which the Group makes a challenged the assumptions used to determine tax provision based on its best estimate of the provisions based on our knowledge and experiences of amount of tax payable.
The provisions for Refer to page 67 the application of the international and local legislation by these estimates often require judgement Audit Committee the relevant authorities and courts: as to the interpretation of specific tax law.
Report, page In addition there is a risk of an error in 108 accounting Assessed the tax implications of the intragroup estimating the provision.
policy and page refinancing exercise undertaken in prior years: 144 financial The effect of these matters is that, as part Inspected Board minutes for reference to tax matters: disclosures.
of our risk assessment, we determined Challenged as to why the provisions for uncertain income that provisions for uncertain income tax tax positions represents managements best estimate: provisions has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the tax reasonable outcomes greater than our accounting and disclosures complied with the requirements of materiality for the financial statements as IAS 12 Income Taxes.
The financial statements note 24 disclose the range estimated by the Group.
Our results We found the level of provisions for uncertain income tax positions to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
UK post retirement Subjective valuation Our procedures included: benefits obligation The valuation of the UK post retirement Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging, with the support 72.8 million: 2017: benefits obligation involves the selection of our own actuarial specialists, the key assumptions applied, 81.9 million of appropriate actuarial assumptions, being the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality life most notably the discount rate applied to expectancy against externally derived data: the scheme liabilities, inflation rates and Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the mortality rates.
The selection of these Refer to page 67 Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to assumptions is inherently subjective and Audit Committee these assumptions.
small changes in the assumptions and Report, page 107 estimates used to value the Groups pension accounting policy Our results obligation could have a significant effect on and pages 137 We found the valuation of the UK post retirement benefits the Groups net pension deficit.
to 143 financial obligation to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that the UK post retirement benefits obligation has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
The financial statements note 23 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
94 Stock Code HILS Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 The risk Our response Carrying value Low risk high value Parent company only Our procedures included: of investment Investment in subsidiaries represents Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of 100% of in subsidiary 78% of the Companys total assets.
investments with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheet undertaking Their recoverability is not at a high risk to identify whether their net assets, being an approximation 325.0 million: 2017: of significant misstatement or subject of their minimum recoverable amount, were in excess of their 324.9 million to significant judgement.
However, due carrying amount and assessing whether those subsidiaries to their materiality in the context of the have historically been profit-making: parent Company financial statements, Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed this is considered to be the area that had Refer to page on the subsidiary audits for a sample of subsidiaries and the greatest effect on our overall parent 148 accounting considering the results of that work, on those subsidiaries company audit.
policy and page profits and net assets: 151 financial disclosures.
Comparing valuations: For the investments where the carrying amount exceeded the net asset value, comparing the carrying amount of the investment with the expected value of the business based on a suitable multiple of the subsidiaries profit or a discounted cash flow.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the carrying value of investment in subsidiary undertakings to be acceptable 2017 result: acceptable.
com 95 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope Normalised profit before tax Group Materiality of our audit 69.9m 2017: 74.0m 3.25m 2017: 3.25m Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 3.25m 2017: 3.25m, determined with reference to a benchmark 3.25m of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude net costs in Whole financial respect of business reorganisations, acquisition expenses, pension statements materiality past service expenses, impairment of assets held for sale and an 2017: 3.25m impairment charge of goodwill as disclosed in note 3.
Normalised Group profit before tax is calculated as 69.9m 2017: 74.0m, of which materiality represents 4.6% 2017: 4.4%.
2.4m Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 2.4m 2017: 2.4m, determined with reference to a Range of materiality at 59 components benchmark of Company total assets, of which it represents 0.6% 0.1m to 2.4m 2017: 0.5%.
2017: 0.1m to 2.4m We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or Normalised Group profit uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 162,500, in before tax addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting Group materiality on qualitative grounds.
162,500 Of the groups 59 2017: 56 reporting components, we subjected Misstatements reported to the audit 27 2017: 27 to full scope audits for group purposes.
committee 2017: 162,500 The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
Group revenue Group profit before tax The remaining 5% of total Group revenue, 4% of Group profit before tax, 13% of total Group assets and 4% of normalised Group profit before tax is represented by 32 reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 2% of any of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax, total Group assets or normalised Group profit before tax.
For these residual components, we 95% 96% performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine 2017: 96% 2017: 96% our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
96% 96% The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed 95% 96% above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1m to 2.4m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 10 of the 59 components 2017: 5 of the 56 components was performed by component Group total assets Normalised Group profit auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent Company, before tax was performed by the Group team.
The Group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
The Group team visited 1 2017: 1 component in the United States of America, the component in Sweden 2017: no visit and the 87% 96% component in France 2017: visit to confirm appropriate execution 2017: 96% 2017: 96% of the audit plan & strategy and inspect their findings.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these component 96% 96% auditors and all other components that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group 87% 96% team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going Residual components concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
96 Stock Code HILS Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty report and the directors report: related to going concern, to make reference to that in this in our opinion the information given in those reports for the audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance they were made, the absence of reference to a material uncertainty with the Companies Act 2006. in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Directors remuneration report Company will continue in operation.
In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model and Companies Act 2006. analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Companys Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability financial resources or ability to continue operations over the Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial going concern period.
The risks that we considered most likely statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw to adversely affect the Groups and Companys available financial attention to in relation to: resources over this period were: the directors confirmation within the viability statement, page Reduction or delay in local government infrastructure 60, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the programmes: principal risks facing the Group, including those that would Significant changes in foreign exchange rates: and threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: The impact of Brexit on the Groups supply chain.
the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosures describing As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt these risks and explaining how they are being managed and on the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going mitigated: and concern, we considered sensitivities over the level of available financial resources indicated by the Groups and Companys the directors explanation in the viability statement of how financial forecasts taking account of reasonably possible but they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what not unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these risks period they have done so and why they considered that period individually and collectively and evaluated the achievability of the to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to position should the risks materialise.
We also considered less continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as the impact over the period of their assessment, including any related of Brexit and the erosion of customer or supplier confidence, which disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications could result in a rapid reduction of available financial resources.
Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement on page 100 on the use Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of the going concern basis of accounting with no material of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent months from the date of approval of the financial statements with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, : or the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 88 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Corporate governance disclosures We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify We are required to report to you if: going concern as a key audit matter.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the audit and the directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, The directors are responsible for the other information presented balanced and understandable and provides the information in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other performance, business model and strategy: or information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, the section of the annual report describing the work of the except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters thereon.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that Listing Rules for our review.
work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: hsholdings.
com 97 Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our are required to report by exception procedures on the related financial statement items.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, Whilst the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations, in our opinion: we did not identify any others where the consequences of noncompliance alone could have a material effect on amounts or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent disclosures in the financial statements.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements the parent Company financial statements and the part of in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently are not made: or limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify we have not received all the information and explanations we it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of require for our audit.
non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override We have nothing to report in these respects.
We are not responsible for preventing noncompliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with 7.
Respective responsibilities all laws and regulations.
Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 88, 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial responsibilities statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. the preparation of financial statements that are free from material Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group Companys members those matters we are required to state to and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material Darren Turner Senior Statutory Auditor misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Chartered Accountants Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does One Snowhill not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs Snow Hill Queensway UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Birmingham Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and B4 6GH are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of 6 March 2019 users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards and discussed with the directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
The Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent 98 Stock Code HILS
