70 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Hilton Food Group plc Basis for opinion Report on the audit of the We conducted our audit in accordance with International financial statements Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Opinion section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we In our opinion, Hilton Food Group plcs group financial statements have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis and company financial statements the financial statements : forour opinion.
give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the Independence companys affairs as at 30 December 2018 and of the groups We remained independent of the group in accordance with the profit and the groups and the companys cash flows for the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial 52week period the period then ended: statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, have been properly prepared in accordance with International as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with European Union and, as regards the companys financial these requirements.
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions oftheCompanies Act 2006: and To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of werenot provided to the group or the company.
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Other than those disclosed in note 6 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the We have audited the financial statements, included within group or the company in the period from 1 January 2018 the Annual report and financial statements the Annual to30 December 2018. report, which comprise: the consolidated balance sheets as at 30 December 2018: the consolidated income statement Our audit approach and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Overview theconsolidated cash flow statement, and the consolidated Overall group materiality: 2,166,600 statement of changes in equity for the 52 week period 2017: 1,853,000, based on 5% thenended: and the notes to the financial statements, ofprofit before tax.
whichinclude adescription of the significant accounting policies.
Materiality Overall company materiality: 1,575,000 2017: 1,574,000, based on 1% of Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the total assets.
Eight trading subsidiaries, together with four intermediary holding companies Audit scope require local statutory audits and were inscope for group reporting.
An Australian trading subsidiary and two joint venture companies Australian and Areas Portuguese were subjected to specific of focus audit procedures.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 71 The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to management bias through judgements and assumptions in significant accounting estimates.
The group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the group engagement team and or component auditors included: Discussions with management and those charged with governance in relation to known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud: Evaluation and where relevant testing of the operating effectiveness of managements controls designed to prevent and detect fraud in financial reporting: Assessment of matters reported on the groups whistle-blowing helpline and the results of managements investigation ofsuch matters: Review of minutes from board and other committee meetings e. g. audit committee or remuneration committee: and Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, inparticular in relation tothe customer supply arrangements see related key audit matter.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, asfraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Customer supply arrangements group We obtained and read copies of open customer supply agreements in order to understand the impact of these The group has entered into a number of rebate and incentive arrangements on the financial statements.
We held discussions with the Directors and inspected minutes Rebates and incentives are calculated based on agreed of Board discussions to determine, in conjunction with the fact contractedrates and volumes of sales to customers over that we did not identify any omitted agreements through our thetermof the contracts.
audit procedures in other areas, whether the list of contracts management had provided was complete.
As the arrangements are mainly based on contracted rates and known sales volumes, there is limited judgement required around We selected a sample of rebate and incentive accruals and the accurate recognition of these amounts and in the appropriate agreed the inputs to the calculations to the contracts and the accounting period.
sales to sales amounts in the accounting ledgers which we had audited to test the accuracy and timing of recognition of However, owing to the number of agreements in place and the the rebates.
Our testing did not identify any errors.
We also range of contractual terms included within those agreements selected rebate and incentive payments made after the period there is a heightened risk that the application of those terms end and checked that they were appropriately accrued in the might be calculated inaccurately, omitted from the calculation correct period.
The payments we had selected for testing were orincluded in the incorrect accounting period.
accruedfor in the correct period.
Furthermore, the Group occasionally agrees variations to thesearrangements with its customers during the term of thecontract.
This can result in a change in agreed rates appliedinthe calculation of the rebate and incentive amounts, resulting inan increased risk of errors in the calculations.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 72 Governance Independent auditors report continued How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us group and the company, the accounting processes and controls, to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and the industry in which they operate.
and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the The Group is structured as a parent company with 18 subsidiary effectof misstatements, both individually and in aggregate undertakings.
There are eight trading subsidiaries located in onthefinancial statements as a whole.
the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, the Netherlands, Poland, Denmark and Sweden: all of these entities are required Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality to have statutory audits under local legislation.
There are for the financial statements as a whole as follows: fourintermediary holding companies, all located in the United Group financial Company financial Kingdom, which are all required to have statutory audits.
All of statements statements these entities are audited by PwC network firms.
The Australian Overall 2,166,600 1,575,000 trading entity increased its operations in the year and specific materiality 2017: 1,853,000.
2017: 1,574,000. audit procedures were performed in support of the Group audit.
The remaining five entities are either dormant or newly How we 5% of profit before tax.
incorporated entities and were not considered to be significant determined it to the Group, though specific procedures were carried out on Rationale for Based on the benchmarks We believe that certain balances and transactions.
In addition to these 18entities benchmark used in the annual report, total assets is the the Group has a 50% interest in joint venture companies applied profit before tax is the primary measure located in Australia, Portugal and the United Kingdom.
We did primary measure used used by the not consider the UnitedKingdom joint venture company to by the shareholders in shareholders in be significant to the Group and it was not therefore subject to assessing the performance assessing the audit procedures.
The Australian and Portuguese joint ventures of the group, and is performance of were material to the Group and were subject to specific audit a generally accepted the entity, and is a procedures.
The keyprotocols we adopted in respect of auditing benchmark.
generally accepted working with all component auditors were: i issuing formal auditing benchmark Group reporting instructions, which set out our requirements for an intermediate for the component auditors, together with our assessment holding company ofaudit risks in the Group: ii holding planning discussions with with no all component auditors in order to agree those requirements, trading operations.
discuss the Group audit risks and to identify any component specific risks: iii high level analysis of the financial information ofthe component by the Group engagement team to identify any For each component in the scope of our group audit, unusual transactions or balances for discussion with component weallocateda materiality that is less than our overall group auditors: iv attending, with Group management, the component materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components clearance meetings held between the component auditors and was between 100,000 and 1,700,000.
Certain components local management: and v obtaining signed audit opinions that were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also the component financial information was properly prepared less than our overall group materiality.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to The only significant component in the Group whose statutory them misstatements identified during our audit above 100,000 audit opinion is not signed by the Group engagement partner Group audit 2017: 100,000 and 100,000 Company audit is located in the Netherlands.
The Group engagement partner 2017: 100,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts visited the component auditor to review the working papers that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
that support their audit procedures on the three significant risk areas: i management override of controls: ii the risk of fraud inrevenuerecognition: and iii complex supply arrangements.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 73 With respect to the Strategic report, Directors report and Going concern Corporate governance statement, we also considered whether In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have Reporting obligation Outcome been included.
We are required to report if we We have nothing material Based on the responsibilities described above and our work have anything material to add toadd or to draw attention to.
undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 or draw attention to in respect However, because not all CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct of the directors statement future events or conditions can Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and in the financial statements be predicted, this statement matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless about whether the directors is not a guarantee as to otherwise stated.
considered it appropriate to the groups and companys adopt the going concern basis Strategic report and Directors report ability to continue as a going of accounting in preparing In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the concern.
For example, the the financial statements and audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors terms on which the United the directors identification report for the period ended 30 December 2018 is consistent with Kingdom may withdraw from of any material uncertainties the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance the European Union are not to the groups and the with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 clear, and it is difficult to companys ability to continue evaluate all of the potential In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and as a going concern over a implications on the groups company and their environment obtained in the course of the period of at least 12 months trade, customers, suppliers and audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the from the date of approval the wider economy.
Strategic report and Directors report.
Corporate Governance Statement We are required to report if the We have nothing to report.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of directors statement relating to the audit, the information given in the Corporate governance Going Concern in accordance statement on pages 46 to 48 about internal controls and risk with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 management systems in relation to financial reporting processes ismaterially inconsistent with and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
5 our knowledge obtained in and 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules the audit.
sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable Reporting on other information legal requirements.
CA06 The other information comprises all of the information in the In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and Annual report other than the financial statements and our company and their environment obtained in the course of the auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this theother information.
Our opinion on the financial statements information.
CA06 does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise course ofthe audit, the information given in the Corporate explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
governance statement on pages 46 to 48 with respect to In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our the companyscorporate governance code and practices and responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing aboutits administrative, management and supervisory bodies so, consider whether the other information is materially andtheir committees complies with rules 7.2.
7 inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge ofthe DTR.
CA06 obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures the company.
CA06 to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financialstatements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothingto report based on these responsibilities.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 74 Governance Independent auditors report continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the group Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit and of the principal risks that would threaten the Responsibilities of the directors solvency or liquidity of the group for the financial statements We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: As explained more fully in the Statements of Directors The directors confirmation on page 24 of the Annual report responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable risks facing the group, including those that would threaten framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair itsbusiness model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of The disclosures in the Annual report that describe those risks financial statements that are free from material misstatement, and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
whether due to fraud or error.
The directors explanation on pages 22 and 23 of the Annual report asto how they have assessed the prospects of the In preparing the financial statements, the directors are group, overwhat period they have done so and why they responsible for assessing the groups and the companys ability consider thatperiod to be appropriate, and their statement as to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group related to going concern and using the going concern basis of will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the they fall due over the period of their assessment, including group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit We have nothing to report having performed a review of of the financial statements the directors statement that they have carried out a robust Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement the financial statements as a whole are free from material in relation to the longer term viability of the group.
Our review misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance of making inquiries and considering the directors process is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit supporting their statements: checking that the statements conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence and understandingof the group and company and their the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these environmentobtained in the course of the audit.
Other Code Provisions A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: report when: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
The statement given by the directors, on page 69, that they consider the Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced Use of this report and understandable, and provides the information necessary This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and for the members to assess the groups and companys position only for the companys members as a body in accordance with and performance, business model and strategy is materially Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume obtained in the course of performing our audit.
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to The section of the Annual report on pages 49 and 50 describing whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately savewhere expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report tobe audited has been properly prepared in accordance with theCompanies Act 2006.
CA06 Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 75 Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations werequire for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, wewereappointed by the directors on 1 October 2007 toauditthe financial statements for the year ended 31 December2007 and subsequent financial periods.
The periodof total uninterrupted engagement is 12years, covering the years ended 31 December 2007 to 30 December 2018.
Kevin MacAllister Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Belfast 26 March 2019 The maintenance and integrity of the Hilton Food Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 76 Financial statements Financial statements Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 77 Consolidated incomestatement 78 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 78 Consolidated balance sheet 79 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 80 Consolidated cash flow statement 81 Notes to the financialstatements 82 Registered office andadvisors 106 For more information visit: www.
com Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
