HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 120 Independent Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of HomeServe plc Opinion In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of HomeServe plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: The Group income statement: The Group and Company statements of comprehensive income: The Group and Company balance sheets: The Group and Company statements of changes in equity: The Group and Company cash flow statements: and The related notes 1 to 46.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
"HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 121 Independent Auditors report Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Carrying value of goodwill: Carrying value of the new Customer Relationship Management CRM"" system: and Cancellation provision and revenue deferrals."
Within this report, the key audit matters identified are the same as the prior year.
In the prior year the carrying value of goodwill and the CRM system were combined into one key audit matter, within this report they have been separated to two key audit matters.
"Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 7.4m which was determined on the basis of 6% of profit before tax PBT""."
Scoping As in the prior year, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the following components: UK: North America: France: and Spain.
All of these were subject to a full audit, as was Checkatrade, whilst the rest of the New Markets segment was subject to specific audit procedures.
Significant changes in our approach We no longer consider the Groups acquisition of USP to be a key audit matter as the acquisition took place in the prior year, we concluded the acquisition accounting was performed in accordance with IFRS 3 and the key assumptions used within the fair value assessment were reasonable.
Other than the change in key risk as described above, there were no other significant changes in our approach.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 122 Independent Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of HomeServe plc continued Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: The disclosures on pages 26 to 33 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: The directors confirmation on page 119 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or The directors explanation on page 51 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 123 Independent Auditors report Carrying value of goodwill Key audit matter description The carrying value of goodwill is 386.6m 2017: 301.9m.
The Groups assessment of the carrying value of goodwill is a judgemental process which requires estimates concerning the future cash flows of each cash generating unit and associated discount rates.
We focus our key audit matter to the accuracy of the most sensitive assumption which is the weighted average cost of capital WACC used to discount the cash flows within managements impairment assessment.
During the year, the Group has identified four new cash generating units CGUs as a result of its acquisition activity.
Given the degree of judgement involved in determining key assumptions, we also identified that there is a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of this balance.
Further detail on the key judgements involved is set out within the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 79, significant accounting policies in note 2, the other areas of focus in note 3 and note 13 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We assessed the design and implementation of controls that the Group has in place to assess the carrying value of goodwill, specifically the management review process to assess the accuracy and completeness of key assumptions within the impairment assessment.
We challenged managements WACC using our internal valuations experts to independently recalculate the WACC rate for each CGU.
We challenged managements key assumptions relating to the estimated future cash flows and discount rates applied to each cash generating unit.
Our procedures included reviewing forecast cash flows with reference to historical trading performance, assessing the Groups ability to accurately forecast business performance, consideration of future prospects of the business and benchmarking assumptions such as the discount rate to external macro-economic and market data using our internal valuations experts.
We challenged managements assessment of the CGUs identified in the current year by considering whether they are separately identifiable, the interdependency between the cash inflows, the management team and whether goodwill can be reasonably allocated to each of the CGUs.
We have reviewed the consistency of the key assumptions used in the carrying value of goodwill assessment to the budget used by the Group to assess longer term-viability and going concern.
Key observations We concluded that the key assumptions used within managements goodwill impairment assessment and WACC calculation were reasonable.
The key assumptions used within the carrying value of goodwill assessment were consistent with the Groups longer term-viability and going concern assessment.
We concluded that the CGUs identified in the current year are appropriate.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 124 Independent Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of HomeServe plc continued Carrying value of the new CRM system Key audit matter description The carrying value of the new CRM system is 72.3m 2017: 60.8m.
In order to support the carrying value of the CRM system, management has performed an impairment assessment, which compares the expected value in use of the asset once operational to the current carrying value plus expected costs to complete.
The key judgement in relation to the new CRM system is the expected future cash flows associated with the benefits case, which will begin to be realised once UK customers are transitioned onto the CRM system which is planned to be in FY19.
There is a risk that the management information used to make these judgements are either incomplete or inaccurate.
Further detail on the key judgements involved is set out within the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 79, significant accounting policies in note 2 and note 14 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We assessed the design and implementation of controls that the Group has in place to assess the carrying value of the new CRM system, specifically the management review process to assess the accuracy and completeness of key assumptions used to determine the expected future cash flows.
We have assessed these key assumptions including the expected retention rates underpinning the benefits case and alongside our IT specialists assessed the progress of the CRM project through review of Board minutes, Steering Group minutes and by holding discussions with management.
Additionally we have analysed budgeted costs to complete to identify whether any impairment is likely in the future.
Key observations We concluded that the key assumptions used within managements carrying value assessment were reasonable and therefore no impairment was required.
Cancellation provision and revenue deferrals Key audit matter description The recognition of revenue requires significant judgement by management to determine key assumptions, particularly regarding the level of revenue to defer in order to satisfy the Groups obligations for future claims handling and policy cancellations.
The total amount of revenue deferred at 31 March 2018 in respect of the Groups future claim handing obligations is 86.3m 2017: 76.7m and the amount of revenue provided in respect of future cancellations is 23.8m 2017: 18.0m.
The key assumptions used by management for claims handling are the monthly exposures to policy claims, frequency of claims per policy type and the average cost per claim.
For policy cancellations the key assumptions are the mid-term cancellation percentages, based on historical experience, and average revenue per policy.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 125 Independent Auditors report Given the degree of judgement involved in determining key assumptions, we also identified that there is a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of this balance.
Further detail on the Groups revenue recognition policy is set out within the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 79, significant accounting policies in note 2 and the associated key judgements involved are set out in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty in note 3 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We first understood managements process and key controls around the cancellation provision and revenue deferrals by undertaking a walk-through.
Following identification of the key controls we evaluated the associated design and implementation of such controls.
Specifically, we assessed the implementation of controls that the Group has in place to manage the risk of inappropriate assumptions being used within the cancellation provision and revenue deferrals.
We assessed the Groups policy for deferring revenue, including considering whether the policy is in accordance with current accounting standards.
We challenged and tested the methodology used for calculating the claims handling revenue deferral by comparing the inputs and assumptions used by reference to policy agreements, industry data provided by the underwriter and costs incurred in satisfying claims in the current financial year.
For the policy cancellations provision we have challenged the key assumptions by reference to the Groups previous and recent retention experience and the level of revenue earned per policy agreement originated in the current financial year.
As part of our risk assessment, sensitivity analysis was also performed in relation to the key assumptions in order to assess the potential for management bias.
Additionally we have assessed if the calculations are consistent across the membership businesses worldwide and in line with Group policy.
Key observations We were satisfied that appropriate revenue deferral policies have been adopted and complied with across the Group.
We found the models used by management to determine the cancellation provision and revenue deferrals to be working as intended and the underlying assumptions were reasonable.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 126 Independent Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of HomeServe plc continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Materiality 7.4m 2017: 7.2m 5.5m 2017: 5.4m Basis for 6% 2017: 7.5% of profit before tax.
We have The basis of materiality is the investment determining changed the measure from 7.5% in the prior in subsidiaries balance, taking into account materiality year audit to 6%.
The reduced measure was the Group materiality, the materiality is driven by the continued growth and increasing approximately 2.8% of the investment in complexity of the Groups operations.
Rationale for We determined materiality using profit We determined materiality using the the benchmark before tax as we considered this to be the investment in subsidiaries balance, as the applied most appropriate measure to assess the Company is not a trading entity we considered performance of the Group.
This is because this to be the most appropriate measure for the profit based measures are the financial Company.
measures most relevant to users of the financial statements.
Group materiality 7.4m Company materiality 5.5m Component materiality Group PBT range 3.7m to 4.8m 123.3m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.4m Group PBT Group materiality HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 127 Independent Auditors report We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 370,000 2017: 360,000 for the Group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, as in the prior year, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the following components: UK: North America: France: and Spain.
All of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the New Markets segment excluding Checkatrade which was subject to a full audit was subject to specific audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at this location.
The UK, North America, France and Spain components account for 97.9% 2017: 97.9% of the Groups revenue and 100% 2017: 100% of the Groups profit before tax from profit-making components there was a loss for the year in the New Markets segment which is not subject to a full audit, with the exception of Checkatrade.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the four components was executed at levels of materiality ranging from 3.7m to 4.8m 2017: 3.1m to 4.7m.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that at least one senior member of the Group audit team visits the UK, North America, France and Spain at least twice a year.
This included a planning visit where we provided input into the components planned audit strategy and risk assessment, and a fieldwork visit where we participated in the components audit close meetings and reviewed documentation of the findings from their work.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 128 Independent Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of HomeServe plc continued Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 129 Independent Auditors report Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 130 Independent Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of HomeServe plc continued Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: The information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and The strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 131 Independent Auditors report Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 1 August 2002 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2003 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 16 years, covering the years ending 31 March 2003 to 31 March 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Matthew Perkins Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Birmingham, UK 22 May 2018 132 HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 El deseo fide cumpleaos Cmo HomeServe ayud a salvar la celebracin fide cumpleaos.
Tena un problema con el lavavajillas que no funcionaba y justo ese da vena a comer toda la familia por el cumpleaos fide mi mujer.
Se nos avecinaba un gran problema: pensar en tantos comensales en casa y con el lavavajillas estropeado Pero llam a HomeServe, me atendi una chica en la primera llamada, dicindome que se pondra en contacto conmigo un profesional ese mismo da.
Me llamaron por la tarde ofrecindome varios horarios y fueron muy puntuales.
Eran dos profesionales con su furgoneta y cuando subieron a casa ya llevaban todas las herramientas.
A partir fide ah, todo sobre la marcha!
Los pasos se ejecutaron perfectamente: desarmaron la parte fide atrs del lavavajillas, cambiaron la bombaque era donde estaba el problemay tras una hora o un poco ms, lo arreglaron todo perfectamente.
Limpiaron sin yo decirles nada y luego probaron que funcionase correctamente.
Me dijeron que les llamase si haba cualquier problema.
Y la verdad es que todo perfecto.
Mi mujer sopl las velas la mar fide contenta!
Mlaga Spain Discover how life keeps moving for our Customers at homeserve.
com customerstories 133 HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 The birthday wish Contents How HomeServe helped save the birthday party.
I had a problem with my dishwasher, which broke down on the day of my wifes Financial Statements birthday.
Just imagine: a house full of guests and no dishwasher...
134 Group financial statements A lady answered on the first ring and told me she could get an engineer out to me the same day.
The engineer offered me a choice of appointment times.
They arrived on 188 Company financial statements time with all the tools they needed.
209 Glossary They did a great job.
They disconnected the dishwasher and changed the pump.
After an hour it was working perfectly.
And they told me to call back if i had any further problems.
My wife blew out the candles with a big smile on her face.
