Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Hunting PLC Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion, Hunting PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2018: the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows, and the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 7 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our Audit Approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: $4.4m 2017 $5.0m, based on 5% of five-year average absolute profit or loss before tax from continuing operations adjusted for the impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets.
We have used the absolute values for losses when calculating the five-year average as the Group has incurred both profits and losses for the financial year ended during the five years benchmark period.
Overall Company materiality: $7.1m 2017 $7.1m, based on 1% of net assets.
Audit scope We conducted audit work in six countries covering 22 reporting units and visited a number of audit locations, including one financially significant component, Hunting Titan, Inc.
Components where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 93% of Group revenues and over 82% of Group absolute adjusted profit or loss before tax from operations.
Key audit matters Goodwill and non-current asset impairment assessment Group.
Direct tax exposures and recognition of deferred tax assets Group.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 91 Independent auditors report to the members of Hunting PLC continued The Scope of our Audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Capability of the Audit in Detecting Irregularities, Including Fraud Based on our understanding of the Group industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to breaches of health, safety and environment risks and the laws and regulations issued by each jurisdiction in which the Group operates see pages 49 to 52 of the Annual Report and Accounts, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to increase revenue and profitability or reduce expenditure, and management bias in accounting estimates.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors referred to in the scoping section of our report below, so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors included: Discussions with management, internal audit and the Groups legal advisers, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud: Evaluation and testing of the operating effectiveness of managements controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities, in particular their anti-bribery controls: Assessment of matters reported on the Groups whistleblowing helpline and the results of managements investigation of such matters: Reading key correspondence with regulatory authorities in relation to compliance with emissions testing regulations: Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to impairment of intangible fixed assets and inventory provisioning see related key audit matter below : Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account combinations or posted by senior management: and Review of significant component auditors work.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
92 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill and Non-current Asset Impairment Assessment We tested managements identification of the CGUs, considering Refer to page 87 and 88 Audit Committee report, note 37 principal business changes that would prompt a change to the classification accounting policies and notes 12, 13 and 14. of the CGUs.
In order to test the impairment models, we challenged whether the future cash flow forecasts and the timing of the forecast The Group holds $229.9m of goodwill on the balance sheet which is recovery in performance of these forecasts for the identified CGUs tested at least annually for impairment.
Intangible assets held by the were appropriate.
More specifically, we challenged the key Group include customer relationships, unpatented technology, and assumptions as follows: patents & trademarks, total $99.8m and the Group has property, plant and equipment of $360.2m.
Other non-current assets are tested for Forecast revenue and margin growth rate assumptions and how impairment if impairment triggers are identified.
management has incorporated the impact of the decline in oil prices subsequent to year end, by comparing them to historical Determining the recoverable amount of non-current assets for results, comparing the shortand medium-term growth rates impairment purposes is a judgemental and complex area as it to independent specialist third party published reports and depends on the future financial performance of the cash-generating considering the impact already observed within the market: unit CGU and future market performance.
While there have been Terminal growth rates by comparing them to economic and industry signs of improvement in the oil and gas market in 2018, there remains forecast: and uncertainty around the market stability, primarily due to fluctuations Discount rates by comparing the cost of capital assumption in oil and gas price driven by shifts in supply and demand and also for each CGU against comparable organisations and our ongoing geopolitical and international trading headwinds.
As such, independently calculated discount rates.
the key risk is around auditing managements impairment model and impairment trigger assessment, in particular judgemental areas such We found the above assumptions to be in line with our expectations as the forecast revenue and margin growth rate, terminal growth rates and that management has followed a clear process for drawing up and discount rates.
the future cash flow forecasts, which was subject to oversight and challenge by the Directors and which was consistent with Board Managements calculated recoverable amounts exceed the carrying approved budgets and mid-term forecasts.
As a result, there have been no impairment charges recognised in the current year.
Three CGU are sensitive to reasonably In respect of all CGUs, we sensitised each key driver of the cash flow possible changes in key assumptions and, as such, sensitivity analysis forecasts, including the underlying assumptions listed above, by has been included in notes 12, 13 and 14. determining what we considered to be a reasonably possible change in the assumptions, based on current market data and historical and current business performance.
In addition we calculated the degree to which the key assumptions would need to change before an impairment was triggered.
Where CGUs are sensitive to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions, we tested the sensitivity disclosures presented in the notes to the financial statements against underlying inputs used in the impairment models and discussed with the Audit Committee and concluded that the disclosures were appropriate.
Having satisfied ourselves on the key assumptions and sensitivities, we assessed the likelihood of movements in key assumptions required to trigger an impairment and by comparison to sensitised forecasts and possible change in discount rates and concluded that it was unlikely.
Inventory Valuation For all categories of inventory, we have critically reviewed the basis for Refer to page 88 Audit Committee Report, note 37 principal the provision recorded to reduce the carrying value of inventory below accounting policies and note 18. cost, the consistency of provisioning in line with Groups accounting policy and the rationale for the recording of provisions.
The Group holds inventory of $348.2m.
While there have been signs of improvement in the oil and gas market in 2018, there remains We assessed the nature of the Groups inventory and the durability uncertainty around the market stability, primarily due to fluctuations thereof through discussion with management, physical inspection of in oil and gas price driven by shifts in supply and demand and also inventory and review of the utilisation of aged inventory products.
We ongoing geopolitical and international trading headwinds.
Pricing agreed with management that the evidence obtained demonstrated pressure continues to pose the risk of inventory being carried at an that the nature of the Groups inventory is not perishable and the risk amount greater than its net realisable value.
of technical obsolescence by age is low.
Specifically, we have: Key to these judgements is managements expectations for future Considered the available support, including current sales sales and inventory utilisation plans and the implications on the level transactions, used to determine an appropriate net realisable value: of provisioning.
Understood the ageing profile of the Groups inventory and managements assessment for obsolescence: and Confirmed that where cost of inventory is higher than its net realisable value, an appropriate provision has been made.
From the procedures performed, we obtained evidence that the inventory was not carried at amounts higher than net realisable value and concluded that it was unlikely that additional inventory provision were required.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 93 Independent auditors report to the members of Hunting PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Direct Tax Exposures and Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets We discussed potential direct tax exposures with senior Group Refer to page 88 Audit Committee Report, note 37 principal management, and the basis for their positions with the Groups accounting policies and notes 10 and 17. in-house tax specialists.
The Group operates in a number of different countries and is therefore We evaluated the calculations of the provisions, and considered: subject to many tax regimes around the world.
Provisions are estimated for uncertain tax positions and disputes with tax authorities, The accuracy of the calculations and ensured that appropriate tax including transactions between Group companies.
rates have been used: and Key judgements made by management in determining the In addition, following taxable losses incurred in the prior years, probability of potential outcomes.
judgement and estimates are required in relation to timing and extent of recognition and subsequent recoverability of the deferred tax assets Our evaluation of these judgements included using our tax specialists, arising from such losses.
in the UK and overseas with experience in the oilfield services industry expertise, as well as our experience of similar challenges elsewhere.
Following continued strong performance from the Groups US segment in 2018 and the 2019 budget process showing significant We evaluated the recognition of deferred tax assets in relation to tax taxable profits expected to be generated from 2019 and beyond, losses and considered: managements view is that the recognition criteria for the deferred tax asset have now been met.
The accuracy of the calculations of total deferred tax assets available and ensured that appropriate tax rates have been used: The Group has recognised deferred tax assets of $24.9m in respect of Key judgements made by management in determining the the full amount of the unutilised tax losses arising from the US segment.
probability of future forecast taxable profits to utilise brought We considered this an area of focus because of the judgement required forward tax losses, consistent with the cash flow forecasts used by management to assess matters across multiple jurisdictions and for impairment assessments: and to determine the extent and timing of recognition, valuation and Assessed the basis on which deferred tax assets have been recoverability of assets in the future.
recognised by comparison to forecast taxable profits.
On the basis of the substantial utilisation of the previously unrecognised tax losses during 2018 as supported by managements approved extended forecast, we agree that the recognition criteria under IAS 12 has now been met.
As the origin of the tax losses relates primarily to impairment losses and the amortisation of intangible assets incurred in prior years, which were presented within amortisation and exceptional items, we do consider the presentation of the tax credit within amortisation and exceptional items to be appropriate.
Through these procedures we evaluated the level of the provisions recognised, the recognition of deferred tax assets and the disclosures included in the financial statements, which we consider to be in line with the Groups policies and relevant accounting standards.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
How we Tailored the Audit Scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of entities covering non-trading legal entities, centralised functions and operating units, totalling 57 reporting units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we considered the type of work that needed to be performed at the operating units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the extent of audit work needed at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Groups reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 13 operating units that were subject to a full scope reporting on their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed at a further nine operating units, to give appropriate coverage of all material balances at the Group level.
In doing so we conducted work in six countries and the Group audit team visited certain reporting locations in Aberdeen, Dubai, Singapore and the US, including visiting Hunting Titan, the one financially significant component.
Together, the reporting units subject to audit procedures accounted for approximately 93% of Group revenues and 82% of Group adjusted absolute profit or loss before tax from operations.
Further, specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, treasury, pensions and impairment, were performed by the Group audit team centrally.
94 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risk of material misstatement in the financial statements.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that has the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as key audit matters in the table above.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality $4.4m 2017 $5.0m.
How we determined it 5% of five-year average absolute profit or loss before 1% of net assets.
tax from continuing operations, adjusted for the impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets.
Rationale for benchmark We applied this benchmark because, in our view, The Company is a holding company, not a trading applied this is an appropriate metric against which the entity and therefore we have not used a profit performance of the Group is measured and of the based benchmark for determining materiality.
Consistent with Consistent with the prior year audit, we concluded the prior year audit, we continue to use a fivethat net assets is most appropriate given that the year average which is considered appropriate to Companys balance sheet is predominantly made up normalise recent profit volatility across the underlying of intercompany balances.
We also noted that most business operations.
As a result, overall materiality income and expense items relate to intercompany has been calculated at $4.4m.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between $0.6m and $4.0m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $0.3m 2017 $0.3m for both Group and Company as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going Concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing to report in respect of the above in respect of the Directors statement in the Annual Report about whether the matters.
Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material However, because not all future events or conditions uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue financial statements.
For example, the terms on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications on the Companys trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to going concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 95 Independent auditors report to the members of Hunting PLC continued Reporting on Other Information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors Assessment of the Prospects of the Group and of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 47 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 53 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 65, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 86 to 90 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 96 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the Audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 65, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this Report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other Required Reporting Companies Act 2006 Exception Reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 7 August 1989 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 1989 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 30 years, covering the years ended 31 December 1989 to 31 December 2018.
Kevin Reynard Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 28 February 2019 Hunting PLC | 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 97
