Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ibstock plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion Basis for opinion In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the financial statements of Ibstock plc the parent company and on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities its subsidiaries together, the group give a true and fair view of under those standards are further described in the auditors the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: of our report.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our as adopted by the European Union: audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial the parent company financial statements have been properly Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard Republic of Ireland: and were not provided to the group or the parent company.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified the consolidated income statement: in the current year were: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: Revenue recognition on bill and hold the consolidated and parent company statements of changes arrangements: and in equity: Inflation and discount rate assumptions the consolidated cash flow statement: used in defined benefit pension note 1, the statement of significant accounting policies: and scheme valuations.
the related notes 2 to 33 and 1 to 12.
Within this report, any new key audit The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the matters are identified with and any key preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and audit matters which are the same as the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting prior year are identified with.
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Materiality The materiality that we used for the group company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom financial statements was 5 million which Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting was determined on the basis of profit before Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United tax for continuing operations.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Scoping We performed full scope audits on the three UK trading components Ibstock Brick, Forticrete and Supreme, Head Office entities and the consolidation process.
Specific procedures were performed by the UK audit team over the US component, Glen-Gery, which have been classified as discontinued operations in the 2018 accounts.
Significant changes In 2017, specified procedures were in our approach performed by a local audit team in respect of the US trading division.
Following the sale of the division in November 2018, specific procedures were performed over the discontinued operations result disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
In 2017, we identified a key audit matter in relation to revenue recognition and customer rebates.
As a result of reassessing the areas of greatest significance during the current year audit, we no longer consider customer rebates to be a key audit matter.
In 2018, we identified a new key audit matter in relation to bill and hold arrangements entered into by Ibstock Brick: these transactions were new in the year ended 31 December 2018.
111 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ibstock plc continued Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks the disclosures on pages 42 to 45 that describe the principal risks and viability statement and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: Going concern the directors confirmation on page 42 that they have carried out We have reviewed the directors statement in note 1 to the financial a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt those that would threaten its business model, future performance, the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their solvency or liquidity: or identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and the directors explanation on page 54 as to how they have companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the group, that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its its business model and related risks including where relevant the liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the qualifications or assumptions.
directors assessment of the groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions We are also required to report whether the directors statement used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add We confirm that we have nothing material to report, or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent Key audit matters with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional We confirm that we have nothing material to report, judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to Principal risks and viability statement fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in engagement team.
the evaluation of the directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, to in relation to: and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue recognition: bill and hold arrangements Key audit matter Ibstock Brick has recognised revenue from bill and hold arrangements in June and December 2018.
There is a risk description that revenue is recognised in respect of bill and hold arrangements prior to acceptance and risks transferring to the customer.
We are required under ISAs UK to presume that there is a risk of fraud in revenue.
Changes in bill and hold revenue could improve adjusted EBITDA, which is a key performance measure, and so we have therefore identified bill and hold sales as our key audit matter in revenue.
Revenue includes 6.6 million relating to bill and hold arrangements of which 4.3 million relates to inventory remaining at Ibstock Brick sites as at 31 December 2018.
This amount includes product sales, where shipment to the customer has not happened as at the balance sheet date, but revenue has been recognised in the year ended 31 December 2018 due to the risks of ownership having passed to the customer.
Further information on bill and hold transactions can be found in note 1 of the accounts.
How the scope of our We have performed the following procedures to address this key audit matter: audit responded to the evaluated the design and implementation of the control to address the key audit matter in Ibstock Brick: key audit matter reviewed managements paper on bill and hold arrangements which explains the purpose of the arrangements: selected a sample of bill and hold transactions and inspected the supporting documentation, including invoice terms to assess whether they meet the revenue recognition criteria in IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: agreed that the inventory is separately identifiable by observing the quarantine of the bill and hold inventory through photographic evidence and physical inspection: reviewed the contracts between Ibstock Brick and the customer to assess whether it is probable that delivery will be made: and performed a retrospective review of bill and hold arrangements from June 2018 and checked that there has been no subsequent refund of the bill and hold sales invoices previously paid on normal commercial terms.
Key observations No issues have been noted in the procedures performed and we concluded that revenue was recognised in accordance with the accounting policy of the Group and relevant accounting standards.
112 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Inflation and discount rate assumptions used in defined benefit pension scheme valuations Key audit matter The Group has a net defined benefit pension asset of 80.7 million as at 31 December 2018 2017: 46.1 million.
description There is a risk of material misstatement relating to judgements made in valuing the defined benefit pension scheme liabilities as small changes in the key model input assumptions such as inflation and discount rates can have a significant impact on the valuation of the liability.
Further information on inflation and discount rate assumptions used in defined benefit pension scheme valuations can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 78, note 2 Critical accounting judgements and estimates on page 129 and note 20 Post employment benefit obligations on page 148.
How the scope of our We have performed the following procedures to address this key audit matter: audit responded to the evaluated the design and implementation of the control to address the key audit matter: key audit matter Assessed the appropriateness of the inflation and discount rate assumptions used in respect of the UK scheme by comparing rates adopted by Ibstock plc for the year ended 31 December 2018 against our expectation determined by internal benchmarks and comparator schemes: considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the defined benefit scheme liabilities to changes in these key assumptions: and challenged management to understand the sensitivity of changes in assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable rates that could be used in their calculation with reference to comparator company and market data as at 31 December 2018.
Key observations From the work performed we are satisfied that the key assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme liabilities are within a reasonable range.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 5 million 2017: 4 million 3.75 million 2017: 3.2 million Basis for determining 5.5% of pre-tax profit from continuing operations 3% of net assets 2017: 2%, capped at 75% of Group materiality 2017: 5% of pre-tax profit.
Rationale for the Consistent with the year ended 31 December 2017, Net assets are considered to be an appropriate benchmark applied we have selected profit before tax as our benchmark benchmark for the Company given that it is mainly a as it is the key focus for shareholders in assessing the holding company.
A set percentage of group materiality performance of the Group.
was applied to the Company based upon the scoping of components, assessing the risk within the Company As a result of experience gained during our first compared to others within the Group.
year audit for the year-ended 31 December 2017, we have increased the % taken when determining As a result of experience gained during our first year the basis for materiality as at 31 December 2018. audit for the year-ended 31 December 2017, we have increased the % taken when determining the basis for materiality as at 31 December 2018.
Component materiality range 3.75m to 1.90m 1 Pre-tax pro t: 92m 1 2 2 Group materiality: 5m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.25m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 250,000 2017: 200,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
113 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ibstock plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material and assessing the risks of material misstatement at a group level.
misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we Full scope audit procedures were performed on the three UK trading have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement components Ibstock Brick, Forticrete and Supreme.
Our audit work of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
at these locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to each individual entity which were lower than group materiality you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information ranging from 1.9 million to 3.75 million.
At the Group level, we also include where we conclude that: tested head office entities and the consolidation process.
In total, this provided coverage of 80% of revenue, 97% of profit before tax and Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by 85% of the net assets.
the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable Specific procedures were performed by the UK audit team on the and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess US trading component, Glen-Gery, sold in November 2018. the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained Revenue in the audit: or 1 1 Full scope audit: 80% Audit committee reporting the section describing the work 2 Specific agreed upon procedures: 20% of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters 2 communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Profit before tax 2 1 We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
1 Full scope audit: 97% 2 Specific agreed upon procedures: 3% Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue Net assets 1 1 Full scope audit: 85% as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going 2 2 Specific agreed upon procedures: 15% concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Other information auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted information comprises the information included in the annual report, in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, A further description of our responsibilities for the audit consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the www.
This description forms audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
part of our auditors report.
114 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Extent to which the audit was considered capable Report on other legal and regulatory of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the requirements financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including Opinions on other matters prescribed by the obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide Companies Act 2006 a basis for our opinion.
In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities the Companies Act 2006.
In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: regulations, our procedures included the following: the information given in the strategic report and the directors enquiring of management and the audit committee, including report for the financial year for which the financial statements are obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the groups policies and procedures relating to: the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
and whether they were aware of any instances of nonIn the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and compliance: of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: strategic report or the directors report.
the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: Matters on which we are required to report by exception discussing among the engagement team including significant Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, including tax, pensions, and IT regarding how and where fraud in our opinion: might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators we have not received all the information and explanations of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud we require for our audit: or in the following area: revenue recognition from bill and hold adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent arrangements: and company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework received from branches not visited by us: or that the group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations the parent company financial statements are not in agreement that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a with the accounting records and returns.
fundamental effect on the operations of the group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Companies Act, Listing Rules, pensions legislation, tax legislation Directors remuneration and protection of the environment and natural resources legislation.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in Audit response to risks identified our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not As a result of performing the above, we identified revenue been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be recognition from bill and hold arrangements as a key audit matter audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
The key audit matters section of our report We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters.
Other matters Auditor tenure In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were identified included the following: appointed by the Board of Directors on 24 May 2017 to audit the reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 and supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted laws and regulations discussed above: engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of enquiring of management, the audit committee and in-house the firm is 2 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2017 legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: to 31 December 2018. performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material audit committee misstatement due to fraud: Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with regulatory authorities: and Use of our report in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and companys members those matters we are required to state to them evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and Jonathan Dodworth Senior statutory auditor remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Statutory Auditor Birmingham, United Kingdom 4th March 2019 115 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Financial statements 117 Consolidated income statement 118 C onsolidated statement of comprehensive income 119 Consolidated balance sheet 120 C onsolidated statement of changes in equity 121 Consolidated cash flow statement 123 N otes to the consolidated financial statements 162 Company balance sheet 163 Company statement of changes in equity 164 Notes to the Company financial statements Additional information 168 Directors, advisers and Company information 168 Shareholder information 168 Registered office IBC Cautionary Statement Location: Pavillion Gardens, Merseyside.
Product: Calderstone Russett and Grampian Red Mix Bricks.
116 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
