Governance Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION In our opinion, IG Group Holdings plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 May 2018 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited IG Group Holdings plcs financial statements comprise: The Group and Company Statements of Financial Position as at 31 May 2018.
The Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended.
The Group and Company Cash Flow Statements for the year then ended.
The Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended.
The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other .
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 June 2017 to 31 May 2018.
94 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info OUR AUDIT APPROACH Context We present below an overview of our audit approach, the details of which are considered within our audit report: Overview Overall Group materiality: 14 million which represents 5% of profit before tax: overall Materiality company materiality: 6.2 million which represents 1% of total assets.
The Group consists of a UK holding company with a number of subsidiary entities and branches containing the operating businesses of both the UK and overseas territories.
The accounting records for both the UK and overseas businesses are primarily maintained and controlled by the Groups finance teams in London andKrakow.
Audit scope We have determined the appropriate work to perform based on the consolidated balances of the Group.
As a result, the audit work was performed by the Group auditteam in London supported by a PwC Poland team in Krakow, reflecting the centralised nature of the business.
Key audit Risk of management override of internal controls, including incorporating privileged matters access management to IT systems relevant to the financial reporting process.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Client Asset Sourcebook.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with and reports to the regulators, enquiries of management, and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by ouraudit.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 95 Governance Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition We focused firstly on testing the control environment in which The Groups trading revenue is predominantly generated revenue is recorded.
In particular we tested controls directly from over-the-counter OTC leveraged derivatives that associated with revenue transaction reporting, and the valuation comprise spread betting and contract for difference CFD of year-end positions held by clients with the Group.
We also transactions placed by clients, offset by net gains or losses tested controls associated with cash reconciliations and from the hedging trades that the Group places with external reconciliations with external counterparties through the year.
We market counterparties to manage its risk.
agreed cash accounts to external third party evidence at year-end through a combination of independent confirmations and examination of bank statements, and amounts and positions held with hedging counterparties to external third party evidence.
Finally, to address the risk that improper adjustments or transactions had been entered into the trading systems, we reviewed client activity reports and read a sample of customer complaints, as well as testing a sample of accounts for authenticity to identify any instances where revenue might have been improperly recognised.
We identified a number of exceptions in our testing of the technology control environment, but have performed sufficient additional procedures to conclude that they do not have a material impact on revenue.
Management override of control, including privileged access We understood and tested key controls in place over the financial management reporting process.
Specifically, in relation to information International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK require technology, we performed testing of the IT general controls thatwe consider this as a significant risk as management is in related to IT systems relevant to financial reporting, including a unique position to perpetrate fraud because of their ability testing of access rights.
tomanipulate accounting records and prepare fraudulent financial statements by overriding controls that otherwise We tested controls mitigating the risks relating to privileged appear to be operating effectively.
This included: validating that the most recent change to the systems had been recorded in the IT change management Although management is responsible for safeguarding the system for approval: testing the control operated by the Group to assets of the business, we planned our audit so that we had a identify where production code differs from the latest approved reasonable expectation of detecting material misstatements version, and performing testing over key automated controls to the financial statements and accounting records.
including report configuration to identify whether unapproved changes to those controls had been made during the period.
We Specifically in relation to information technology, the risk also performed substantive procedures to mitigate the risks.
relates to privileged access provided for the Groups These included the testing of reconciliations of key financial technology function to certain IT systems relevant to the reports to external third party sources, including broker and bank Groups revenue and financial reporting processes.
No issues arose from this work.
mitigating controls operate, the privileged access could result in unauthorised changes being made to system functionality We assessed the judgement areas underlying key accounting or data, either in error or intentionally.
estimates used in preparation of financial statements and tested the appropriateness and authorisation of journal entries selected for testing using risk criteria tailored for the Group.
We also incorporated an element of unpredictability into our testing approach.
96 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group consists of a UK holding company with a number of subsidiary entities and branches containing the UK and overseas operating businesses.
The accounting records for the UK and overseas businesses are primarily maintained by the Group Finance team in London and Krakow.
As a result, the audit work was performed by the Group audit team and PwC Poland in these locations.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group Company Overall materiality 14 million 2017: 10.7 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax 1% of total assets Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we applied A benchmark of total assets has been used as the thisbenchmark, a generally accepted Companys primary purpose is to act as a holding auditing practice, as it is the most Company with investments in the Groups relevantmetric against which the subsidiaries, not to generate operating profits and performance of the Group is measured.
therefore a profit based measure is not relevant.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.7 million 2017: 0.5 million at Group level and 0.3 million 2017: 0.3 million at Company level only as well as misstatements below these amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going Concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect We have nothing material to add ofthe directors statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered orto draw attention to.
However, itappropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial because not all future events or statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and conditions can be predicted, this theCompanys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months statement is not a guarantee as to from the date of approval of the financial statements.
the Groups and Companys ability tocontinue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 97 Governance Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 May 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements CA06.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report CA06.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 56 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 39 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, overwhat period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whetherthey have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities astheyfall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit Listing Rules.
Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 93, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 80 to 87 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately addressmatters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from arelevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 CA06.
98 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 93, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true andfair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation offinancial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but todo so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance isahigh level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a materialmisstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or intheaggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or The Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
APPOINTMENT Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the directors on 8 December 2010 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2011 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 8 years, covering the years ended 31 May 2011 to 31 May 2018.
Darren Meek Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 24 July 2018 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 99
