OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION In our opinion: Imperial Brands PLCs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Imperial Brands PLC Balance Sheets as at 30 September 2018: the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, and the Consolidated and Imperial Brands PLC Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
INDEPENDENCE We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed in the Directors Report and in note 4, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the ParentCompany in the period from 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH OVERVIEW Overall Group materiality: 130 million 2017: 130 million, based on approximately 4 per cent of adjusted profit before tax, as defined in note 1 to the Group financial statements.
Overall Parent Company materiality: 160 million 2017: 160 million, based on 1 per cent of total assets.
For the purposes of the Group audit we applied a lower materiality of 10m 2017: 10 million.
MATERIALITY Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement we selected 19 reporting entities for full scope audits which represent the principal business units.
We conducted full scope audit work in the UK, USA, Germany and Logista in addition to a further 13 locations in which the Group has significant operations.
Our work also covered the Group shared service centre, central treasury function and the Parent Company.
AUDIT SCOPE In addition, we performed specified procedures over certain balances and transactions in Russia and Fontem Ventures in the Netherlands.
During the year, the Group engagement team visited five locations outside of the UK where full scope audits KEY AUDIT were performed, the shared service centre in Poland and both locations where specified procedures took place.
MATTERS Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessment Group.
Uncertain tax positions in respect of direct and indirect taxes Group.
Viability of key distributors and customers and impact on recoverability of receivables Group.
com 77 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC continued THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industries in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Parent Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, inspection of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, review of significant component auditors work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls including system segregation of duties, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER We challenged the Directors analysis around the key drivers of the Drive Growth GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSET IMPAIRMENT cash flow forecasts including the ability to achieve sustained price increases, ASSESSMENT GROUP market size and market share.
We evaluated the appropriateness of the key Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee assumptions including discount rates, short-term and long-term growth rates and note 11 Intangible Assets.
and performed sensitivities across the reporting segments.
We also tested the We focused on this area because the determination of whether integrity of the model, checking key formulae and logic of the calculations used.
elements of goodwill and intangible assets are impaired involves complex and subjective judgements by the Directors about the For the Russian business we assessed the credibility of the model by testing the future results of the relevant parts of the business.
accuracy of prior year estimates and considered the forecast growth trajectory in the context of historical levels of profitability.
We also considered the impact At 30 September 2018 the Group had 12,463 million of goodwill of current and expected legislative and duty changes on the business and and 607 million of intangible assets with indefinite lives and utilised recent market information of acquisitions and disposals within the clear headroom in the majority of the Groups cash generating Russian tobacco sector to calculate valuation multiples and compared these to unit CGU Groupings.
We focused on the valuation of the Growth Markets reporting In assessing the Japanese cash flows we considered the Groups brand segment 2,411 million of goodwill and intangible assets investment strategy to target the value-end of this market against a backdrop with indefinite lives.
Growth Markets is made up of a number of increased regulation and taxes driving more consumers towards the of operating segments and individual CGUs, mainly the Drive value-end of the tobacco product range.
Given there is little historical Group Growth CGU Grouping.
We note that while headroom has precedent to support these forecasts in Japan, we challenged Management increased in this division to 164 million 2017: 33 million to ensure the discount rate reflected this risk, and compared their rate to it remains relatively low and is sensitive to key assumptions.
other growing businesses facing similar situations in similar environments.
On balance we are comfortable that the discount rate used reflects relevant For the Drive Growth CGU Grouping we focused on both the risks and is therefore appropriate.
valuation of the Russian business, which represents the most material part of this CGU Grouping, and to a lesser extent on As a result of our work we concluded that Managements judgement that no Japan where significant growth is anticipated in the medium impairment was required to Drive Growth was reasonable.
We note that goodwill term.
In particular we considered the robustness of short-term and intangibles held by these businesses remain sensitive to changes in key growth included in the impairment models, together with assumptions.
In particular, for Drive Growth, this conclusion is dependent on a discount rates and long-term growth rates.
sustained recovery in the Russian market from the difficult trading conditions encountered last year, and if this does not occur an impairment could arise.
Giventhis, Management has appropriately disclosed relevant sensitivities.
We highlight however that Managements analysis was performed on a value in use basis under IAS 36 which currently excluded Next Generation Product NGP cash flows due to these products only recently having been launched in the Drive Growth markets.
We held discussions with Management in relation to these NGP cash flows and are comfortable with Managements disclosure that these cash flows can be incorporated into a Fair value less costs to sell model for the Drive Growth CGU and that this would increase headroom by at least 200 million.
78 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect of identifying UNCERTAIN TAX POSITIONS IN RESPECT OF DIRECT uncertain tax positions, which we found to be satisfactory for the purposes of our AND INDIRECT TAXES GROUP audit.
We also evaluated the related accounting policy for provisioning for tax Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee exposures and found it to be appropriate.
and note 8 Tax The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is We used our UK and overseas tax specialists to gain an understanding of subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range the current status of tax assessments and investigations and to monitor of tax matters during the normal course of business, including developments in ongoing disputes.
transfer pricing, direct and indirect taxes and transaction related tax matters.
Our focus was on uncertain tax positions in relation to the challenge from the French Tax Authority in respect of the disposal of the Altadis Distribution France Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the Group business, the EU Commissions challenge of the UK Controlled Foreign Company establishes provisions based on Managements judgement of the regime, and a number of other State Aid and transfer pricing risks.
We read likelihood of settlement being required.
recent rulings and correspondence with local tax authorities, challenged key assumptions and inspected external advice provided by the Groups tax experts We focused on the judgements made by Management in assessing and legal advisors where relevant, to satisfy ourselves that the provisions had the likelihood of potentially material exposures and the estimates been appropriately recorded or adjusted to reflect any latest developments.
used to determine such provisions where required.
In particular we focused on the impact of changes in local tax regulations and We determined that the position adopted in the Group financial statements was ongoing inspections by local tax authorities and international reasonable based on our consideration of the risks.
bodies, which could materially impact the amounts recorded in the Group financial statements.
We also considered significant findings from recent tax audits, including the Russian Tax Authoritys preliminary audit report seeking additional taxes of up to Given the nature of judgements involved, the complexities of approximately 132 million, as disclosed in note 8 to the Group financial statements.
dealing with tax rules and regulations in numerous jurisdictions, We engaged our Russian audit and tax specialists to perform some specified accounting for this risk is primarily managed by the Imperial procedures in relation to this matter and have discussed the status and expected Brands head office tax team in Bristol.
As such, this was a key Group responses with Management and their external tax and legal experts.
area of focus for the Group engagement team.
We challenged the overall sufficiency and clarity of disclosures in relation to uncertain tax provisions and tax related contingent liabilities.
We highlighted where further disclosure was considered appropriate and ensured this has been included in the Annual Report.
Our audit of this charge included validating total receivables and loans with VIABILITY OF KEY DISTRIBUTORS AND CUSTOMERS AND Palmer & Harvey at the time of administration, inspection of correspondence IMPACT ON RECOVERABILITY OF RECEIVABLES GROUP with the Administrators, and testing subsequent recovery of cash receipts.
Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee Due to the nature of the tobacco sector, the Group is reliant on a We also considered the suitability of presentation of the 110 million charge as number of key distributors and customers in certain markets.
an adjusting item and was comfortable with this treatment given its size and non-recurring nature.
In late November 2017, a key distributor for the UK market, Palmer and Harvey, entered administration.
This led to a reported We have considered the viability of other significant distributors and customers, 160 million charge to the interim results.
through looking at recent payment history, analysing aged receivables and challenging provisions for any doubtful debts.
Given the significance of the administration, our work has focused on the charges recognised in respect of Palmer & Harvey and Based on our procedures, we noted no material exceptions and consideration of the viability of other key distributors and customers considered Managements key assumptions regarding recoverability as part of assessing the recoverability of receivables at year end.
In relation to the Palmer & Harvey administration, subsequent to the interim results, certain cost estimates have been revised by Management based on actual costs incurred and a more accurate understanding of further costs, and some cash recovery has also been received from the Administrator, reducing the overall charge recognised in the Group financial statements to 110 million.
In respect of these matters, we have held meetings with the Group legal team TOBACCO-RELATED LITIGATION GROUP and reviewed board meeting minutes to understand the matters and current Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee progress.
We have also assessed available historic precedent.
and note 28 Contingent Liabilities The Group is currently involved in a number of legal cases in We have written to and received responses from the Groups external lawyers in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and all these cases and validated responses to Managements position.
As a result of our work we consider Managements position, that no provision is The Groups view is that it has meritorious defences to all these required, to be reasonable.
We also discussed the level of disclosure in relation cases and therefore no provisions have been made.
to these matters and highlighted where further disclosure was considered appropriate, and ensured this has been included in the Group financial statements.
In the US, tobacco-related litigation is managed separately by the Master Settlement Agreement MSA.
Four states are not parties to this agreement and claims have been raised against the Groups US business, ITG Brands, in connection with its acquisition of certain US brands in June 2015.
The Group continues to receive legal advice in relation to these claims that supports Managements assessment that at present it is remote that the Group will incur any outflow of resources and therefore no provision is necessary.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Parent Company to communicate in our report.
com 79 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC continued HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is structured along two business lines being Tobacco and NGP and Distribution.
The Tobacco and NGP business operates across 160 markets, with 21 main markets, which are then managed through segments: Returns North: Returns South: and Growth, which includes the USA.
A number of these markets are supported by the Groups shared service centres in Poland and the Philippines.
The output of these shared service centres are included in the financial information of the reporting components they service and they are therefore not separate reporting components.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a local or regional finance function for each of the markets in which the Group operates.
These functions maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the head office finance team in Bristol through an integrated consolidation system.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at reporting components, by either the Group engagement team or through directing component auditors from PwC network firms.
This included consideration of the work required to be performed by our audit teams at shared service centres to support component auditors.
We identified 19 reporting entities including the Distribution sub group, which due to their significance and or risk characteristics required an audit of their complete financial information.
We also conducted specified procedures in Russia based on our assessment of the risk of misstatement and the scale of operations at this market, and we performed specified audit procedures over Fontem Ventures in the Netherlands due to the increasing importance of NGP to the Group.
Certain specific audit procedures over central corporate functions and areas of significant judgement, including goodwill and intangible assets, taxation, material provisions and contingent liabilities, were performed at the Groups head office.
We also performed work centrally on systems and IT general controls, consolidation journals and the one-off transactions undertaken by the Group during the year.
Taken together, the reporting entities and Group functions where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 79 per cent of Group revenues and in excess of 90 per cent of both Group profit before tax and Group adjusted profit before tax.
At the Group level, we also carried out analytical and other procedures on the reporting components not covered by the procedures above.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those functions to be able to conclude whether sufficient and appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
We issued formal, written instructions to component auditors setting out the work to be performed by each of them and maintained regular communication throughout the audit cycle.
These interactions included attending component clearance meetings and holding regular conference calls, as well as reviewing and assessing matters reported.
Senior members of the Group engagement team visit the component teams on a rotational basis.
In the current year the Group team visited the USA, Morocco, Germany, Spain, Logista, Russia and Fontem Ventures B. V. as well as in-scope UK reporting locations.
These visits included meetings with local management and with the component auditors, as well as certain operating site tours.
TheGroup engagement partner also took part in the year-end clearance meetings for the UK, USA, Germany and Logista businesses, and the Group engagement team reviewed the audit working papers for these components and certain other components.
MATERIALITY The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements 130 million 2017: 130 million.
Overall materiality Approximately 4 per cent of adjusted profit before tax.
How we determined it We believe that adjusted profit before tax is the The parent entity is principally an investment Rationale for benchmark applied primary measure used by shareholders and holding company and therefore it is not appropriate otherusers in assessing the performance of the to use profit before tax or revenues to calculate Group, and that by excluding adjusting items it materiality, rather materiality is considered with provides a clearer view on the performance of reference to total assets.
Overall materiality applied theunderlying business.
is limited to 10 million, lower than 1 per cent of total assets, due to being restricted for Group reporting for the purposes of the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 10 million and 40 million for the trading entities and 80 million for the financing and treasury entity.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million Group audit 2017: 10 million and 10 million Parent Company audit 2017: 10 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
80 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS GOING CONCERN In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial ability to continue as a going concern.
statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to going We have nothing to report.
concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for theyear ended 30 September 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did notidentify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 29 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 29 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 35, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 41-47 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act2006.
com 81 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMPERIAL BRANDS PLC continued RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 55, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a materialmisstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financialstatements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
USE OF THIS REPORT This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
APPOINTMENT Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 6 August 1996 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 27 September 1997 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 22 years, covering the years ended 27 September 1997 to 30 September 2018.
RICHARD FRENCH SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Bristol 6 November 2018 82 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018
