DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Following this review, the Directors consider, when taken accounting records that are sufficient to show and as a whole, that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, explain the Group and parent companys transactions balanced and understandable and provides the and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the information necessary for shareholders to assess the financial position of the Group and parent company and Companys position and performance, business model enable them to ensure that the financial statements and and strategy.
the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the GOING CONCERN Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
discussed in connection with the viability statement on The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the page 46, the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt assets of the Group and parent company and hence for the going concern basis of accounting in the financial taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection statements for the next 12 months.
of fraud and other irregularities.
AUDITOR AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and TO THE AUDITOR integrity of the parent companys website.
Legislation in The auditors, Deloitte LLP, have indicated their willingness the United Kingdom governing the preparation and to continue in office.
A resolution to reappoint them as dissemination of financial statements may differ from auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
So far as the Directors are aware there is no relevant The Directors consider that the Annual Report and audit information of which the Companys auditor is Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and unaware.
The Directors have taken all the steps that understandable and provides the information necessary theyought to have taken as Directors in order to make for shareholders to assess the Group and parent themselves aware of any relevant audit information companys performance, business model and strategy.
and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in Board of Directors, confirm that, to the best of ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING theirknowledge: The AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday, the parent company financial statements, which have 23 May 2019 at Deutsche Bank AG, Winchester House, been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB.
The notice Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United convening the meeting and the resolutions to be put to Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 the meeting, together with the explanatory notes, are Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law, given in the Circular to all shareholders.
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, The Directors Report was approved by the Board and financial position and loss of the Company: has been signed by the secretary of the Company.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, Tamsin Waterhouse liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and Group Company Secretary the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and parent company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors considered the key messages contained in the Strategic Report along with the disclosures made throughout to ensure that they are consistent, transparent and a true reflection of the business.
The Directors also reviewed supporting documentation which addresses specific statements made in the report and the evidence to support those statements.
92 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 94 Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc 102 Consolidated income statement 103 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 104 Consolidated statement of financial position 105 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 106 Consolidated statement of cash flows 107 Accounting policies 118 Notes to the financial statements 165 Alternative performance measures 166 Five year record 167 Company statement of financial position 168 Company statement of changes in equity 169 Company accounting policies 171 Notes to the Company financial statements OTHER INFORMATION 184 Shareholder information Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements of Inchcape plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company statements of financial position: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated statement of cash flows: accounting policies: and the related notes 1 to 34 of the consolidated financial statements and notes 1 to 15 of the parent company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Goodwill impairment assessment Acquisition accounting Inventory valuation Acquisition accounting is a new key audit matter this year following the acquisition of Grupo Rudelman in March 2018.
The previous auditors report included a key audit matter related to manufacturers bonuses and rebates.
We concluded this was not a key audit matter given low levels of management judgement and estimation, and the formulaic nature of the majority of the rebate and bonus calculations.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 18.0 million which was determined on the basis of 5% of profit before taxation and exceptional impairment, pension and finance costs.
Scoping We conducted our work in 17 countries, with 26 reporting units subject to full-scope audit procedures.
The reporting units where we conducted our audit work accounted for 89% of the Groups revenue, 93% of the Groups profit before taxation and exceptional costs and 88% of the Groups net assets.
94 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 94 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS First year audit transition We developed a detailed audit transition plan, designed to deliver an effective transition from the Groups predecessor auditor, PWC.
Our transition activities were performed across the Group and focused on obtaining an understanding of the Groups system of internal control, evaluating the Groups accounting policies and areas of accounting judgement and meeting with Group and business unit management.
The key transition activities included but were not limited to the following: 1.
In November 2017 we developed an initial audit transition plan as part of the tender process.
The transition plan was finalised in January 2018 in conjunction with Group management, including setting key milestone dates to monitor transition progress: 2.
We ensured we were independent during the tender process and reconfirmed independence to the Audit Committee on 12 May 2018: 3.
Senior members of the audit team visited key markets as part of onboarding and transition: 4.
We reviewed PWCs 2017 audit work papers and met with relevant partners and senior staff from PWC to further our understanding of the predecessor auditors approach and assess audit procedures performed on opening balances: and 5.
We shadowed PWC throughout the 2017 year-end audit and attended key audit meetings.
This included, but was not limited to, attendance at significant market year-end audit close meetings in January 2018 and the Audit Committee meeting in February 2018 where the final report on the audit was presented.
This transition process helped us build an understanding of the Group, which, in turn, informed our risk assessment process and identification of the risks of material misstatement to the Groups financial statements.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the Directors statement in the accounting policies on page 107 of the nothing material to report, financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going add or draw attention to concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material in respect of these matters.
uncertainties to the Groups and parent companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were nothing material to report, consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the add or draw attention to knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and in respect of these matters.
the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 39-46 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 56 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 46 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
com 95 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc continued KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Goodwill impairment assessment Key audit matter The Group has goodwill across seven cash generating units CGUs at 31 December 2018: 259.8 million description 2017: 391.8 million.
The largest balance relates to the UK Retail CGU: 90.3 million after an impairment charge of 175 million was recognised 2017: 265.7 million.
Management identified an impairment indicator related to the carrying value of goodwill in the UK Retail business due to recent performance combined with a challenging trading environment.
The Groups assessment of impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets is a judgemental process which requires estimating future cash flows based on managements view of future business prospects.
Our key audit matter focuses on the robustness of the revenue and profit forecasts of the UK Retail business.
Given the significant level of judgement involved, we identified this key audit matter as a potential fraud risk.
Refer to page 62 Audit Committee report and note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
How the scope We performed the following procedures in response to the key audit matter identified: of our audit Completed a walkthrough of the impairment process and assessed the design and implementation of responded to the the key controls addressing the risk: key audit matter Met with UK Retail and Group management to understand and critically challenge the key underlying assumptions used in the forecasts that form the basis of the Groups impairment review: Performed an assessment of the accuracy of previously prepared forecasts: this included reviewing trading performance in 2018 to determine managements ability to forecast accurately and understand the reasons for any material variances: Performed additional sensitivities, including running weighted-probability analyses, to assess the robustness of the model: this involved running combined sensitivities, using industry growth trends, and modelling the potential impacts of Brexit: Performed a model integrity check, including reviewing the model for mathematical and clerical accuracy: Performed an assessment of contradictory information, including a review of external industry growth forecasts: and Reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements, including the disclosure of the events and circumstances that led to the recognition of the impairment charge and sensitivities.
Key observations Based on the audit procedures performed we are satisfied that the impairment charge recognised and the valuation of goodwill at year end is appropriate.
Acquisition accounting Key audit matter The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Grupo Rudelman on 26 March 2018 for 155.5 million description resulting in goodwill of 42.1 million.
This transaction falls under the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations which requires significant management judgement in determining the fair value of assets acquired, including intangible assets which are inherently judgemental.
Our key audit matter focuses on the valuation of assets acquired including intangibles and the completeness of liabilities associated with the Grupo Rudelman acquisition, including the valuation of the distribution agreement.
The Group elected to continue recording the acquisition related entries as provisional as at 31 December 2018 as permitted under IFRS 3.
The final entries will be presented in the 30 June 2019 half yearly report.
Refer to page 64 Audit Committee report and note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
How the scope We performed the following procedures in response to the key audit matter identified: of our audit Completed a walkthrough of the acquisition process and assessed the design and implementation responded to the of the key controls addressing the risk: key audit matter Evaluated managements assessment of the due diligence findings and the actions taken: Risk assessed, appropriately scoped and tested the opening balance sheet for the acquired business: Engaged our valuation specialists to review the intangible valuation report, including attending a series of calls with the Groups advisors to critically challenge the valuation methodology, key underlying assumptions and understand subsequent adjustments made to the model: Tested and challenged the inputs used in the valuation model: and Reviewed the disclosures in the financial statements.
96 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 96 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key observations Based on the audit procedures performed we are satisfied the carrying value of assets recorded is appropriate.
Inventory valuation Key audit matter The Group recorded inventory of 1,851.9 million at 31 December 2018 2017: 1,768.6 million, which is description held across multiple locations.
IAS 2 Inventories states inventories should be recognised at the lower of cost and net realisable value NRV, being selling price less estimated selling costs.
A provision of 49.9 million 2017: 56.5 million is held at year end.
The overall provision percentage as a proportion of the gross value of inventory fell from 3.1% at 31 December 2017 to 2.6% at 31 December 2018.
Management has a formal provisioning policy based on historical performance, future trading forecasts and market data.
As gross margins on sales of vehicle inventory can be low and inventory is sometimes sold at a loss, provisions are recorded against inventory to write it down to the Groups best estimate of its recoverable amount.
Refer to note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
How the scope of We performed the following procedures in response to the key audit matter identified: our audit Completed a walkthrough of the inventory valuation process and assessed the design and responded to the implementation of the key controls addressing the risk: key audit matter Challenged the provisioning policy set by the Group with reference to past data and industry knowledge: Benchmarked inventory valuations to third party external valuation data: Tested the underlying data used to calculate the provision: Recalculated the provision in local markets using location specific industry knowledge: and Evaluated how the Group has adequately assessed whether the carrying value exceeds the NRV and, if not, whether appropriate provisions have been recorded.
Key observations Based on the audit procedures performed we are satisfied that the valuation of inventory is appropriate.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 18.0 million 2017: 19.1 million 17.7 million 2017: 20.6 million Basis for determining We determined materiality to be 18.0 million based Parent company materiality equates to materiality on 5% of profit before taxation and exceptional 1% of net assets.
impairment, pension and finance costs.
The predecessor auditor determined materiality using 5% of profit before taxation and exceptional items.
Rationale for the Profit before taxation is considered to be the As the parent company of the Group it does benchmark applied most relevant benchmark.
We have excluded not generate significant revenues but instead exceptional impairment, pension and finance holds investments and incurs costs such that costs as this provides the most stable and net assets are an appropriate base to use to comparable profit metric.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.9 million 2017: 1 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
com 97 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit The parent company is audited directly by the Group audit team.
We conducted our work in 17 countries, engaging 18 component audit teams with 26 reporting units subject to full-scope audit procedures.
The previous auditor conducted work in 20 countries covering 28 reporting units.
The reporting units where we conducted our audit work accounted for 89% of the Groups revenue, 93% of the Groups profit before taxation and exceptional costs and 88% of the Groups total assets.
7 11 12 profit before Total tax and Revenue % assets % exceptional items % 89 93 88 Full audit scope Full audit scope Full audit scope Review at Group level Review at Group level Review at Group level We engaged component auditors from Deloitte member firms to perform procedures at these components under our direction and supervision.
This approach also allows us to engage local auditors who have appropriate knowledge of local regulations to perform the audit work, under a common Deloitte audit approach.
The range of component materialities applied, excluding the parent company, is 7.6 million to 12.6 million.
We issued detailed instructions to the component auditors, and directed and supervised their work.
Senior members of the audit team visited 13 countries during the transition, planning and performance stages of our audit.
In addition we attended the planning and close meeting calls for all full-scope components, engaged in frequent remote communication and reviewed significant component working papers.
In addition to the work performed at a component level, at Group level we have audited the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures over the countries not subject to full-scope audits.
At a Group level we also performed audit procedures on centrally held balances including goodwill, retirement benefit obligations, tax, treasury, head office costs and litigation.
98 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 98 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the parent companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
com 99 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99
