Financial Statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Informa PLC Independent Auditors report to the members of Informa PLC The financial reporting framework that has been applied in Report on the audit of the financial statements the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable Opinion law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial In our opinion: reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law the financial statements of Informa PLC and its and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the state of the Groups and of the parent companys Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted affairs as at 31December 2018 and of the Groups profit Accounting Practice.
for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Basis for opinion in accordance with International Financial Reporting We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
the parent company financial statements have been properly Our responsibilities under those standards are further prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The of the financial statements section of our report.
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and We are independent of the Group and the parent company in the financial statements have been prepared in accordance accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as the IASRegulation.
applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these We have audited the financial statements which comprise: requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided the Consolidated Income Statement: to the Group or the parent company.
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the related notes 1 to 42 to the Consolidated Financial Statements: and the related notes 1 to 12 to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
134 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Summary of our audit approach The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key audit matters the valuation of intangible assets acquired through the business combination with UBM: the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets: and the timing of revenue recognition.
In 2017, we identified the phased implementation of the Groups SAP system as a key audit matter.
This is no longer a key audit matter in 2018, as the implementation is substantially complete and deficiencies identified in 2017 have been remediated.
In 2017, we identified a key audit matter in relation to the identification and valuation of intangible assets and associated goodwill in business combinations: we continue to consider this a key audit matter, which in 2018, is specifically in relation to the acquisition of UBM.
The audit materiality that we agreed with the Audit Committee for the current year was 27.0 million.
This Materiality represents 5% of statutory pre-tax profit adjusted for impairment charges and amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
The increase in materiality over the prior year materiality figure 22.0 million reflects the inclusion of the post-combination results of UBM, acquired on 15 June 2018.
Following the UBM combination, we have reassessed the audit scope for the enlarged Group, in order to Scoping reflect the business operations, finance function structure, and geographic scope of UBM.
Similar to Informa, UBMs finance function is primarily structured through shared service centres in each region.
We performed full scope audits or specified audit procedures at the principal business units within the enlarged Groups shared service centres in the UK, USA, China, Hong Kong and Singapore.
These in-scope locations represent the principal business units within the Groups operating divisions and account for 73% 2017: 72% of the Groups revenue and 78% 2017: 74% of the Groups adjusted operating profit.
Our planned audit approach was discussed with the Audit Committee in May 2018, prior to the UBM combination.
Significant changes in Following the combination in June 2018 and our appointment as auditor to the enlarged Group, our audit plan our approach was revised.
The most significant changes to our audit plan were in relation to: an increase in audit materiality to reflect UBMs post-acquisition contribution to the Groups results: the inclusion of a number of new components in our audit scope to incorporate UBMs primary regional finance functions: the identification of a key audit matter in relation to valuation of intangible assets acquired through the UBM business combination: the identification of a controls approach for the legacy-UBM business, which included a controls-reliant audit approach for the purchase-to-pay cycle: and the extension of our analytics approach to legacy-UBM components.
Our revised audit plan was discussed with the Audit Committee in November 2018: there have been no significant changes in our approach since then.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 135 Financial Statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Informa PLC continued Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have Going concern nothing material to report, We have reviewed the directors statement in Note 2 to the financial statements about whether they add or draw attention to in considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their respect of these matters.
identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have Principal risks and viability statement nothing material to report, Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent add or draw attention to in with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in respect of these matters.
the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 64 to 72 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 63 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on pages 73 to 75 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
136 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The valuation of intangible assets acquired through the business combination with UBM On 15 June 2018, Informa acquired 100% of the issued share capital of UBM plc for 4.2 billion.
Key audit matter description The key audit matter identified relates to the valuation of the acquired intangible assets and, in particular, to the appropriateness of the assumptions used in the valuation methodology.
This includes the revenue and contribution forecasts used in the model, and the acquisition model assumptions such as customer retention rates, royalty rates, discount rates and expected lives over which projections are forecast.
Management have engaged independent valuation specialists to assist with the valuation of acquired intangible assets, which primarily relate to trade names and customer relationships.
Provisionally, 2,315.7 million of intangible assets have been recognised in relation to the UBM combination.
Management discusses the policies and procedures around business combinations in Note 2, and discloses business combinations in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In Note 3, the valuation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations is identified by management as a critical accounting judgement.
This judgement area is also referred to within the Audit Committee report on page 107.
We assessed the design and implementation of controls around the valuation of intangible assets in the How the scope of our UBM combination, including managements review controls around the work of the valuation specialists.
audit responded to the key audit matter Our procedures to respond to this key audit matter included the following: We engaged Deloitte internal valuation specialists to assist in testing the key assumptions used within the valuation process.
Our specialists reviewed the valuation approaches applied for reasonableness, and benchmarked the input assumptions, including discount rates and customer retention rates, to external data.
Our valuation specialists also considered the appropriateness of the valuation model methodology against applicable standards and accepted valuation practices.
We tested the underlying revenue and contribution forecasts used in the valuation model by challenging the growth assumptions within the 3-year-plan on a Group-wide basis as well as for a sample of individual events, based on historical performance, and our understanding of developments within the business and the wider industry.
We reported to the Audit Committee that out audit procedures were performed satisfactorily and Key observations we did not identify any material exceptions as a result of our audit procedures.
We note that management has elected to show the fair value amounts within Note 18 as provisional as permitted by IFRS 3 for finalisation within 12 months of the acquisition date.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 137 Financial Statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Informa PLC continued The recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets The Group has expanded significantly through acquisition.
As at 31 December 2018, total Key audit matter goodwill and intangible assets were stated at 6,257.3 million and 3,910.3 million respectively description 2017:2,608.2million and 1,701.4 million respectively.
The UBM combination resulted in an additional 3,470.0million goodwill and 2,315.7 million intangible assets being recognised.
Where goodwill exists, accounting standards require that management perform an annual impairment test, computing the recoverable amount based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
The recoverable amount is then compared to the balance sheet carrying value of each cash generating unit or group of cash generating units CGU.
This same impairment test is required for intangible assets where indicators of potential impairment have been identified.
This year management have performed their impairment assessment in respect of goodwill on a divisional basis by aggregating the CGUs at the divisional level, reflecting the level at which they monitor goodwill.
To perform its impairment review, management prepares forecasts for three years, using the budget for year one and the strategic plan for years two and three, and then applies a terminal value beyond year three using growth factors and discount rates applicable for each CGU.
The selection of the growth rates and the discount rate assumptions requires judgement and is fundamental to this audit risk.
Management engages independent expert valuation advisers to assist in deriving appropriate long-term growth rates and discount rates.
We considered the recoverability of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets as a key audit matter for two reasons: the significant amount of audit resources and effort applied in respect of testing the impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets.
This reflects the significance of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets on the Group balance sheet: and we identified a significant risk of material misstatement in respect of two specific CGUs.
The carrying value of these CGUs at the date of the impairment review was 44.8 million and 56.8million respectively.
The assessment that led to the identification of these CGUs as being at significant risk of material misstatement focussed on performance against budget in 2018 and the prior year and where the level of headroom relative to the carrying value is small.
Management discusses the policies and processes followed in respect of the impairment review in Notes 2 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and impairment of assets is identified as a key source of estimation uncertainty in Note 3.
This key source of estimation uncertainty is also referred to within the Audit Committee report on page 107.
138 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements We audited managements impairment review for goodwill and other intangible assets using a range of How the scope of our audit procedures.
The audit procedures that we performed with respect to all CGUs included the following: audit responded to the key audit matter Assessing managements methodology: obtaining an understanding of the basis of preparation of the forecasts and impairment review, and assessing the design and implementation of key controls within the impairment review process: assessing recent forecasting accuracy against actual performance: assessing the impairment review of goodwill at both an individual CGU, and an aggregation of CGUs, basis for this year, reflecting 2018 being a transition year in terms of the approach taken by management to the goodwill impairment review: involving our internal valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of the key assumptions including the discount rates and long-term growth rates prepared by managements expert valuation adviser: and considering the reasonableness of sensitivities applied by management and reperforming this sensitivity analysis.
Assessing the cash flow forecasts: determining whether the 2019 forecast performance for each CGU was consistent with the budgets adopted by management and approved by the Board of Directors: assessing the appropriateness of short-term forecasts for each CGU against historical performance to assess the reasonableness of the budgets: and determining whether the growth rates selected by management were reasonable, in line with the requirements of accounting standards and reflected industry trends.
We involved our internal valuations specialists in these procedures.
The incremental audit procedures that we performed in respect of the two CGUs that we identified as being at a significant risk of material misstatement were: assessing the design and implementation of key controls within the budget preparation and review process in relation to these specific CGUs: further challenging the cash flow forecasts used within the impairment model based on our understanding of the business and developments within the year, discussions with finance and divisional management, and external industry information: further considering historical forecasting accuracy by comparing actual performance to budgets over a 5-year lookback period: performing breakeven analysis to identify the period over which the CGUs carrying value would be recovered by forecast cash flows: and performing further sensitivity analyses on the impairment model for the two CGUs identified, based on historical performance against budget.
We reported to the Audit Committee that the audit response procedures were performed satisfactorily Key observations and that the assumptions management had applied in their impairment review were reasonable.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 139 Financial Statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Informa PLC continued The timing of revenue recognition The specific nature of the risk of material misstatement in revenue recognition varies across the Key audit matter Groups revenue streams and operating divisions.
We identified a risk in relation to the cut-off of description revenue and whether the release of deferred revenue is allocated appropriately: this was identified as an area of potentially fraudulent management manipulation, as required by auditing standards.
In respect of the events revenue stream, within the Global Exhibitions, Knowledge & Networking and UBM divisions, customers are generally billed in advance and a key risk in revenue recognition is that revenue from events and conferences might be recognised in the wrong period, particularly if events are held close to year-end.
In respect of subscriptions revenue within the Academic Publishing, Business Intelligence and UBM divisions, we identified a risk that the deferral and release of subscription revenues does not appropriately match the subscription period in customer contracts.
In Academic Publishing, for the unit sales revenue stream, we identified a key risk relating to sales cut-off, being that revenue for books or e-books is not recognised in line with the agreed delivery terms, and that expected post year end returns are not appropriately provided for.
The Groups revenue recognition accounting policies are disclosed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements with an analysis by revenue stream and by segment in Notes 5 and 6 respectively.
We confirmed our understanding of each of the divisions business models and our understanding of the How the scope of our principles set out in customer contracts and the sales process.
We then confirmed our understanding audit responded to of the design and implementation of controls by performing sample transaction walkthroughs of the the key audit matter revenue recording process, from order processing to invoice production through to cash collection.
These procedures enabled us to design and perform substantive audit procedures to respond to each of the specific risks of material misstatement we identified.
The procedures we performed across the entities within our audit scope included the following: In relation to events revenue: we performed detailed testing of a sample of transactions, obtaining invoices, payments, exhibitor contracts and evidence of event occurrence to determine whether revenue was recognised at the appropriate time: and we used data analytics techniques to identify the revenue and cost profile of all events in the year, comparing this to the calendar of events and testing occurrence by reference to third party sources.
In relation to subscriptions revenue: we performed detailed testing of a sample of subscription transactions, obtaining and reviewing the relevant order confirmations and contracts to validate whether revenue was appropriately recorded across the term: and we used data analytics techniques to recalculate the deferred revenue in relation to subscription revenue for contracts spanning the year end.
In relation to unit sales revenue: we performed detailed testing of a sample of transactions close to year end, examining supporting documentation to determine whether revenue recognition criteria has been met and whether the revenue has been appropriately recognised in the period or deferred at the period end.
We reported to the Audit Committee that our audit procedures were performed satisfactorily.
Key observations 140 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 27.0 million 2017: 22.0 million 10.8 million 2017: 11.0 million Basis for Our materiality is based on a percentage of statutory Materiality is capped at 40% of Group materiality determining pre-tax profit adjusted for impairment charges and 2017: 50%, which equates to 0.1% of net assets materiality amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business 2017:0.3% of net assets.
27.0 million represents 5% of this measure 2017: 5%.
27.0 million represents 9.2% of statutory profit before tax 2017: 8.3% and 4.2% of reported adjusted profit before tax 2017: 4.5%.
Rationale for the We adjust for impairment charges and amortisation Net assets is typically considered an appropriate benchmark applied of intangible assets acquired in business combinations benchmark for materiality as the parent company to use a profit measure also used by analysts, and is a holding company, but given the quantum of the because profits adjusted for these items more closely net assets on the parent company balance sheet we align with current cash flows.
have limited materiality to 40% of Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.3 million 2017:1.1million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Following the UBM combination, we have reassessed the audit scope for the enlarged Group, in order to reflect the business operations, finance function structure, and geographic scope of UBM.
Based on that assessment, we performed full scope or specified audit procedures at the principal business units within the legacyInforma shared service centres in Colchester UK, Sarasota, Florida USA, Cleveland, Ohio USA and Singapore.
We also performed full scope or specified audit procedures at the principal business units within the legacy-UBM business in Kent UK, New York USA, Shanghai China, Hong Kong, and Singapore.
The parent company is located in the UK and audited directly by the Group audit team.
The in-scope locations those at which a full scope audit or specified audit procedures were performed as part of the Group audit represent 73% 2017: 72% of the Groups revenue and 79% 2017: 74% of the Groups adjusted operating profit.
The Group audit team directly audit the entirety of the Groups goodwill and acquired intangible assets.
Our audit work at all the locations in the Group audit scope was executed to a materiality of up to 14.9 million, and therefore not exceeding 55% of Group materiality of 27.0million.
Adjusted operating Revenue profit Full audit scope 65% 68% Specified audit procedures 8% 10% Review at Group level 27% 22% 100% 100% WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 141 Financial Statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Informa PLC continued At the Group level, we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit.
IT specialists within the Group team tested the Groups two main ERP systems, SAP ECC legacy-Informa and Oracle legacy-UBM, centrally.
We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of key controls within the legacy-UBM purchase-to-pay cycle and relied on these controls in the execution of our audit procedures.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a designate visits each of the locations in the Group audit scope at least once every two years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
In the course of the 2018 audit, visits were undertaken to all of the audit locations identified above with the exception of Cleveland, Ohio USA, which was visited in 2017 and 2016.
For each component, we included the component audit team in our team briefings, to discuss the Group risk assessment and audit instructions, to confirm their understanding of the business, and to discuss their local risk assessment.
Throughout the audit, we maintained regular contact in order to support and direct their audit approach.
We also attended either in person or dial in local audit close meetings with local management, performed on-site or remote reviews of their working papers, and reviewed their reporting to us of the findings from their work.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the We have nothing to report information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
142 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit, and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team including significant component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations, pensions, IT, and analytics specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we identified that have a direct effect on the determination of the financial statements are the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, pensions legislation and tax legislation.
Other key laws and regulations which could have a material effect on the financial statements include GDPR, anti-bribery legislation and anti-money laundering regulations.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 143 Financial Statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Informa PLC continued Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above procedures, we identified the timing of revenue recognition as a key audit matter.
The key audit matters section of our report explains this matter in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to that key audit matter.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed described as having a direct effect on the financial statements above: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and reviewing internal audit reports: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures in respect of these matters.
of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
144 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were reappointed by the members at the AGM on 24 May 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 15 years, covering the years ending 2004 to 2018.
The most recent external audit tender was finalised in June 2016.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Anna Marks FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 6 March 2019 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 145
