Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Indivior PLC Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion: Indivior PLCs Group Financial Statements and Parent Company Financial Statements the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet and the Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2018: the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and the Parent Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed in Note 6 to the Financial Statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Emphasis of matter Group Outcome of legal proceedings In forming our opinion on the Group Financial Statements, which is not modified, we draw your attention to Notes 2, 20 and 22 that describe the uncertain outcome of the ongoing investigations by the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission as well as antitrust litigation.
The Group carries a provision of $438m, substantially all of which relates to the potential settlement of the Department of Justice investigations.
The final aggregate settlement amount for all of the outstanding matters referred to may be materially higher than this provision and or may require payment over a shorter period than currently anticipated.
Material uncertainty relating to going concern Group and Parent Company In forming our opinion on the Financial Statements, which is not modified, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosure made in Note 2 of the Group Financial Statements and Note 1 of the Parent Company Financial Statements that describes the uncertain outcome of the ongoing investigations by the Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission and antitrust litigation.
This could impact the Groups ability to operate, which will be adversely affected by the significant decline in revenue in 2019 and beyond following the at-risk launch of generic buprenorphine naloxone sublingual film products and the potential risk of failure for new products to meet revenue growth expectations.
The above matters could also impact the Parent Companys ability to recover amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings and the value of the Parent Companys investments in shares in subsidiary undertakings.
These conditions, set out in Note 2 to the Group Financial Statements and Note 1 to the Parent Company Financial Statements, indicate the existence of a material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Financial Statements do not include the adjustments that would result if the Group and Parent Company were unable to continue as a going concern.
Indivior Annual Report 2018 Indivior Annual Report 2018 85 85 Independent Auditors report to the members of Indivior PLC continued Explanation of material uncertainty The Directors have taken significant steps to reduce the cost base of the business and manage its capital structure and believe the Group has sufficient liquidity, influence over near-term legal proceedings and the ability to carry out further measures that may be necessary for the Group and Parent Company to continue as a going concern for at least the next 12 months.
However, a combination of the above risks may require additional measures such as further cost savings or a change to the legal strategy.
As a result of the expected significant decline in revenue in 2019 and the extent of its potential impact, the Directors are prepared to take the further steps noted, as also described in Note 2 to the Group Financial Statements and Note 1 to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
The Directors believe that they are able to carry out the necessary additional measures and that the Group and Parent Company can continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for accounting in preparing these Financial Statements.
However, given the risks associated with the matters outlined above, the Directors have drawn attention to this in disclosing a material uncertainty relating to going concern in the basis of preparation to the Financial Statements.
What audit procedures we performed In concluding there is a material uncertainty, our audit procedures assessed the impact of a final aggregate settlement amount for all of the outstanding legal proceedings that is materially higher than the current provision: higher than expected loss of revenue following the at-risk launch of generic buprenorphine naloxone sublingual film products: and the failure for new products to meet revenue growth expectations.
In assessing the impact of the above scenarios, which are referred to in Note 2 to the Group Financial Statements and Note 1 to the Parent Company Financial Statements, we performed the following procedures on the Directors assessment that the Group and Parent Company will continue as a going concern: agreed the underlying cash flow projections to management approved forecasts, assessed how these forecasts are compiled, and assessed the accuracy of managements forecasts by reviewing third-party data for the SUBOXONE Film, SUBLOCADE and PERSERIS revenue streams with the assistance of our valuations experts: evaluated the assumptions regarding the impact of revenue decline of SUBOXONE Film by reference to the historical impact of other generic launches on the revenues of a branded product: assessed the basis of the actions implemented to reduce the Groups cost base by agreeing them to detailed workings, agreeing, where appropriate, to actions already undertaken, discussing the assumptions used with management, assessing the reductions against underlying calculations and whether those further reductions identified were feasible given our understanding of the business model and operating expenses: assessed the impact of either increased lump sum payments or a different payment pattern as a result of the settlement of the legal proceedings, combined with lower SUBOXONE Film, SUBLOCADE and PERSERIS revenue and a higher level of damages required to be paid to generic competition than currently provided against the debt covenants in place as explained in Note 18: assessed whether the downside model prepared by management appropriately considered the risks facing the business as identified in the principal risk section on pages 29 to 34: and checked the mathematical accuracy of the spreadsheet used to model future financial performance and determined whether the minimum cash balance requirements will be met.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: $15.9m 2017: $18.0m, based on 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Overall Parent Company materiality: $14.7m 2017: $14.7m, based on 1% of total assets.
We conducted work in two key territories, being the UK and US.
This included full scope audits MATERIALITY at two components and specific audit procedures over certain financial statement line items at a further four components.
The components where we performed audit work, taken together with our work on central corporate functions, accounted for 94% of the Groups revenues and 92% of the Groups adjusted AUDIT SCOPE profit before tax.
Risk of misstatement relating to ongoing legal claims and regulatory investigations and claims and the related provisions refer to Notes 20 and 22 Group.
KEY AUDIT Significant judgements and estimates in sales rebates, discounts and returns adjustments recognised MATTERS primarily in the US business refer to Note 2 Group.
Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries refer to Note 2 of the Parent Company Financial Statements Parent Company.
com Financial statements The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to pharmaceutical regulatory requirements including, but not limited to, those of the Federal Trade Commission, US Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines Agency see page 34 of the Annual Report, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the Financial Statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the Financial Statements including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006 and UK and US tax legislation.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the Financial Statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to manipulate revenue or expenditure, and management bias in accounting estimates.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors referred to in the scoping section of our report below, so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the group engagement team and or component auditors included: Discussions with management, internal audit and the Groups legal advisors, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud: Reviewing key correspondence with regulatory authorities and discussion with external and internal legal counsel: Review of significant components auditors working papers: Reading of internal audit reports: Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in its significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to impairment of intangible assets, other non-current assets, deferred tax assets and inventories see related key audit matter below : Evaluation of managements controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities, in particular its anti-bribery controls: Assessment of matters reported on the groups whistleblowing helpline and the results of managements investigation of such matters: and Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account combinations, posted by senior management or posted at unusual times.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the Financial Statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Indivior Annual Report 2018 Indivior Annual Report 2018 87 87 Independent Auditors report to the members of Indivior PLC continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In addition to going concern, described in the Material uncertainty relating to going concern section above, we determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Risk of misstatement relating to ongoing legal claims We discussed actual or pending legal or regulatory claims and regulatory investigations and the related provisions with the Groups external and internal legal counsel to gain refer to Notes 20 and 22 Group an understanding of the status of each case.
The pharmaceutical industry is a highly regulated industry.
Where provisions had been booked in the Group Financial Compliance is required across the industry, however with Statements, we substantively tested the amount provided and the US representing 79% of the Groups revenue, the US evaluated managements position of the likely outcome and regulatory requirements, including those of the Federal compared that to the provision by: Trade Commission and US Food and Drug Administration is reading documentation such as correspondence with considered a significant focus.
The Group is engaged in a external legal counsel and Board and Committee minutes number of ongoing litigations and investigations, which may and having discussions with external and internal legal have a material impact on the Group Financial Statements.
counsel: We focused on this area because the outcome of claims is evaluating independent confirmations that we received uncertain and the positions taken by the Directors are based from the Groups external legal counsel: and on the application of material judgements and estimation.
assessing managements assumed payment structure, Accordingly, should the outcomes of the legal proceedings including evaluating the discount rate utilised.
differ from those anticipated by the Directors, this could We assessed the impact that applying different payment materially impact the Groups reported profit and balance arrangements and discount rate assumptions would have on sheet position.
the provision noting immaterial variations to managements As referred to in Notes 2, 20 and 22, the Group carries a provision balance.
provision of $438m in respect of the investigative and antitrust For certain ongoing regulatory investigations where no litigation matters at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 formal claim had been brought against the Group at $438m.
In arriving at this balance, management has applied a 31 December 2018, we spoke with external legal counsel to payment structure and discount rate to determine the present discuss the matters and understand the extent of their work value as reported.
to determine whether it was sufficient to support their Substantially all of the provision relates to the U. S. conclusions regarding the settlement estimate that was Department of Justice investigation.
The Group is in advanced established as a provision and to determine that there have discussions with the Department of Justice about a possible been no illegal acts.
resolution to its investigations, although it cannot predict with We used our own accumulated knowledge from working any certainty whether, when, or at what cost it will reach an with other entities in the pharmaceutical industry operating ultimate resolution.
Therefore, the final settlement amounts in the US to challenge whether the Directors had omitted any may be materially higher than the $438m provision maintained material relevant factors when drawing their conclusions.
or require payment over a shorter period.
In addition, we considered the completeness of legal and regulatory matters through open discussions with internal legal counsel and by reading Board and Committee minutes, without identifying any other legal matters that had not already been disclosed to us.
Furthermore, we obtained representations from management that there have been no illegal acts.
Finally, we checked the disclosures relating to legal proceedings in the Financial Statements back to our underlying work.
We found that the disclosures in Notes 20 and 22 were in accordance with the requirements of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We consider that the disclosures in respect of the legal and regulatory matters are of such importance that they are fundamental to understanding the Financial Statements and we therefore included reference to the disclosures in the Outcome of legal proceedings emphasis of matter above.
com Financial statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Significant judgements and estimates in sales rebates, We obtained the accruals calculation for sales rebates, discounts and returns adjustments recognised primarily discounts and sales returns and tested the inputs into the in the US business refer to Note 23 Group calculations by comparing them with: In the US, the Group sells products through distributors and rates included in sales contracts and agreements with third the ultimate selling price is determined based on the parties: and contractual arrangements that the Group has with the rebate invoices received after the year-end, on a sample patients insurer or other payment programme Medicaid, basis, in order to assess the accuracy of the Directors Medicare or equivalent scheme.
The time between initial forecast volumes by channel.
shipment to the distributor when the revenue is recognised, We performed look back tests that compared accruals the dispensing of a product to a patient and notification by recognised in previous periods to actual rebates, discounts or the relevant insurer or payment programme may be several returns received in order to test the Directors historical months.
Accordingly, an estimate of the net selling price accuracy in calculating these accruals.
is necessary at the date of shipment, when the revenue We assessed the completeness and accuracy of the accruals is recognised.
by understanding and testing the process management used As a result, revenue recognised on sales to wholesale and to record the year-end balances, by comparing such amounts retail distributors is subject to a final determination of the net to our own independently developed expectations of the sales price in the form of rebates, discounts and sales returns.
Our independent expectations were The process for determining the size of these estimates is developed based upon historical rebate invoices received, complex and depends on contract terms and regulation, as adjusted for current volumes, rebate rates and for sales well as forecasts of sales volumes by channel.
Our testing returns, and adjusted for industry experience in the face of focused on the accruals for sales rebates, discounts and sales competition.
The accruals recognised in the Financial returns recognised at the year-end.
Statements were not materially different from our internally We focused on this area as the process for calculating sales generated expectations.
rebates, discounts and return accruals involves the use of We assessed the reasonableness of managements sales large volumes of data, being sales volumes and discounts returns provision in light of the wholesaler buy-in and the from multiple sources, which, taken together, can be imminent generic entry, by analysing the industry trends on subjective and at risk of management manipulation or bias.
returns following the launch of generics.
We considered the Given the large quantities of data and significant judgements year-end inventory holding levels at both wholesalers and involved in compiling these calculations, we considered there pharmacies as compared to the expected forecast sales to be a risk of bias in the calculations and that this risk related following a generic launch.
We considered managements to the understatement of these accruals.
In addition, given the assumptions utilised to be reasonable in light of the level of increased risk of generic intrusion in 2019, we also focused on information available at the year-end.
managements assessment of the impact that the generics In determining the appropriateness of the revenue could have on sales returns.
recognition policy including application of IFRS 15 Revenue with contracts with Customers applied by the Directors in calculating sales rebates, discounts and sales returns under contractual and regulatory requirements, we note there is judgement taken regarding these items.
From the evidence obtained we found the assumptions, methodology and policies used to be appropriate.
We evaluated whether managements revenue recognition policies applied were consistent with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, noting no differences.
We also evaluated managements adoption of the new accounting standard, which had no impact.
Indivior Annual Report 2018 Indivior Annual Report 2018 89 89 Independent Auditors report to the members of Indivior PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Recoverability of assets refer to Note 2 Group Our procedures focused on managements judgements on the recoverability and valuation of the intangibles, other longIntangible assets of $84m, other non-current assets of $33m, term assets, deferred tax assets and inventory assets linked deferred tax assets of $44m, and inventories of $78m are to management revised forecasts due to generic intrusion accounted for at amortised cost less impairment in the Group and any changes to expectations for the product pipeline.
These assets are tested for impairment if impairment indicators exist.
For intangible assets, we considered whether the SUBLOCADE and PERSERIS intangible assets were recoverable based on The recoverability of certain assets, including intangible managements revised forecasts.
assets, other non-current assets, deferred tax assets and We utilised our valuation experts to assess the accuracy inventory may be impacted by the recent developments in of managements forecasts based on the market data the Groups business, including: for uptake of comparable products and broker forecasts, a decline in SUBOXONE Film revenue following the assessed managements discount rate applied, and checked at-risk launch of generic buprenorphine naloxone the consistency of forecasts and accuracy of the model used.
sublingual film product: For other intangible assets related to products in the market acceptance of SUBLOCADE and PERSERIS being development, we considered the accuracy of forecasts used slower than expected: and in the impairment assessments based on managements latest cost reduction contingency plans, including changes to product pipeline plan and consider managements decision the product pipeline.
to impair these assets by $24m to be appropriate.
The recoverable amounts of these assets is estimated in order We assessed whether the inventory held at 31 December 2018 to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Any relating to SUBLOCADE, PERSERIS, SUBOXONE and SUBUTEX such impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
was recognised at the appropriate net realisable value and is An impairment loss was recorded at 31 December 2018 in recoverable by assessing the forecast sales and profit figures, relation to the Arbaclofen Placarbil and Addex intangible concluding that the forecasts support the inventory held at 31 assets, bringing the net book value from $24m down to nil.
No other assets were deemed to be impaired.
For other non-current assets and deferred tax assets, we assessed the recoverability of these assets against managements forecasts concluding that there was sufficient headroom or future profits to support the value held at 31 December 2018.
For all of the above matters, we checked that the cash flow forecasts and assumptions used were consistent with those used in the going concern assessment detailed above.
We have also assessed managements disclosures within the Group Financial Statements and consider them to be appropriate.
com Financial statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries refer to We evaluated managements assessment of whether any Note 2 of the Parent Company Financial Statements indicators of impairment existed, mainly being the significant Parent Company share price decline during the year.
Investments in subsidiaries of $1,437m are accounted for at For the investment in Indivior Global Holdings Limited, a cost less impairment in the Parent Company balance sheet discounted cash flow model was prepared.
In conjunction with at 31 December 2018. our assessment of the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we tested the reasonableness Investments are tested for impairment if impairment of the key assumptions.
This included revenue, profit and cash indicators exist.
If such indicators exist, the recoverable flow growth rates, terminal value and the discount rate.
We amounts of the investments in subsidiaries are estimated utilised our valuation experts to support us in our assessment in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if of the accuracy of the revenue forecasts for managements any.
Any such impairment loss is recognised in the Income key products: SUBOXONE Film, SUBLOCADE, and PERSERIS.
Given the significant share price decline during the We performed our own independent sensitivity analysis to year, we considered this to be an impairment indicator that understand the impact of reasonable changes required management to perform an impairment assessment.
in managements assumptions on the available headroom.
Judgement is required in the area of impairment testing, As a result of our work, we considered that the carrying particularly in assessing: 1 whether an event has occurred values of the investments held by the Parent Company are that may indicate that the related asset values may not be supportable in the context of the Parent Company Financial recoverable: 2 whether the carrying value of an asset can be Statements taken as a whole.
supported by the recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value less costs to sell or the net present value of future cash We have also assessed managements disclosures within the flows which are estimated based on the continued use of the Parent Company financial statements and consider them to asset in the business: 3 the appropriate key assumptions to be appropriate.
be applied in preparing cash flow projections including whether these cash flow projections are discounted using an appropriate rate.
Changing the assumptions to determine the level, if any, of impairment, including the discount rates or the growth rate assumptions in the cash flow projections, could materially affect the net present value used in the impairment test and as a result affect the Parent Companys financial condition and results of operations.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group operates a single business activity and therefore has one reportable segment.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of 37 components comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised Group functions.
The Group consolidation, Financial Statements disclosures and corporate functions were audited by the Group engagement team.
This included our work over legal, intangible assets impairment, tax, borrowings, net finance expense and share-based payments.
In addition to centralised Group audit procedures, we conducted our audit by concentrating our work on those parts of the Group that make up the most significant proportions of the Financial Statements.
We identified one component in each of the US and UK that required a full scope audit due to its size.
Audit procedures over specific financial statement line items were performed at a further four components in the UK and US to give sufficient audit coverage.
With the largest components of the Group being the US and UK we focused our audit work there.
For the audit of the US component, we utilised our Richmond, Virginia based component audit team with knowledge and experience of the US pharmaceuticals industry and regulations.
These US procedures were supplemented by procedures performed on certain UK and European operations by PwC staff based in the UK.
Our Group engagement teams involvement in the audits of the components included site visits where the component auditors planned response to key audit matters was discussed, particularly regarding sales rebates, chargebacks and discounts in the US and certain asset recoverability considerations in the UK.
The Group engagement team involvement also included component auditor working paper reviews in the US and UK, regular conference calls, and attendance at both the US and UK component audit closing meetings.
Taken together, the components and corporate functions where we conducted audit procedures accounted for 94% of the Groups net revenues and 92% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
This provided the evidence we needed for our opinion on the consolidated Financial Statements taken as a whole.
This was before considering the disaggregated group level analytical review procedures, which covered certain of the Groups smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in our Group audit scope.
Indivior Annual Report 2018 Indivior Annual Report 2018 91 91 Independent Auditors report to the members of Indivior PLC continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Overall materiality $15.9m 2017: $18.0m.
How we determined it 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Groups principal measure of earnings Based on our professional judgement, as comprises adjusted profit before tax, which the Parent Company is a holding company adjusts statutory profit before tax for a we believe total assets is the primary number of exceptional income and measure used by the shareholders in expenditure items.
Consistent with prior assessing the performance of the entity, year, we excluded these exceptional items, and is a generally accepted auditing which are non-recurring and do not impact benchmark for holding companies.
continuing business performance, which is consistent with the measure of performance that the shareholders consider.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between $3.5m and $12.5m 2017: between $5m and $17m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit of the Group Financial Statements of above $0.8m 2017: $0.9m and above $0.7m 2017: $0.7m in respect of our audit of the Parent Company Financial Statements as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to other or draw attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the than the material uncertainty relating to going concern as Financial Statements about whether the Directors considered described in the section above.
However, because not all future it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a in preparing the Financial Statements and the Directors guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and continue as a going concern.
For example, the terms on which the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern the United Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval which is currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, of the Financial Statements.
and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications on the Groups trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
com Financial statements Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the Financial Statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the Financial Statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or further draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 30 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
We also have nothing material to add to the Directors explanation on page 35 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
However, we draw attention to the disclosures made within the Viability Statement on page 35 of the Annual Report regarding the possible scenarios that may occur where the uptake of both SUBLOCADE and PERSERIS falls significantly below expectations and where the outcome of legal proceedings or timing of litigation payments is materially worse than planned, in which circumstances the Groups viability may be impacted during the assessment period.
Other than drawing attention to the disclosures referred to above, we have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 83, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 50 to 57 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Indivior Annual Report 2018 Indivior Annual Report 2018 93 93 Independent Auditors report to the members of Indivior PLC continued Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 83, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 23 December 2014 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is five years, covering the years ended 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2018.
Sarah Quinn Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 1 March 2019 94 94 www.
