108 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 108 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION IN OUR OPINION: the financial statements of Inmarsat plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated cash flow statement: and the related notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: accounting for capitalised development expenditure: accounting for complex revenue contracts: and classification and disclosure of the convertible bond.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was $16.0m which was determined on the basis of a number of relevant benchmarks including EBITDA.
Scoping We have performed full-scope audit procedures for components which represent 99% of net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
Significant changes In the current year we have reported on a new key audit matter in respect of classification and disclosure of the convertible in our approach bond following significant fluctuations in market value of the bond in the year.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 109 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 109 CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they We confirm that we have nothing material to considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their report, add or draw attention to in respect of identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so these matters.
over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the We confirm that we have nothing material to knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of report, add or draw attention to in respect of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are these matters.
required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 52 to 58 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated the Directors confirmation on page 53 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity or the directors explanation on page 59 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In addition to the new key audit matter in respect of classification and disclosure of the convertible bond, we have redefined the key audit matter in respect of revenue recognition, pinpointing the risk in the current year to accounting for complex contracts.
In the prior year the key audit matter was in respect of accuracy, completeness and occurrence of manual adjustments to airtime revenue.
110 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 110 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC CONTINUED REVENUE RECOGNITION ACCOUNTING FOR COMPLEX REVENUE CONTRACTS Key audit matter Inmarsat has entered into a number of one-off contracts in the year and has generated revenue of $101.3m in respect of in-flight description connectivity contracts.
These contracts are complex in nature given there are no standardised terms and conditions and in some cases these contracts are classified.
In addition, a fraud risk has been identified in respect of these complex contracts due to the level of judgement required.
On entering into new contracts a detailed assessment of the accounting for these under IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers is prepared by management.
Each month manual postings are made to revenue accounts to adjust for items such as contract assets, contract liabilities or liquidated damages to ensure revenue recognition meets the requirements of IFRS 15.
The accounting policy for the recognition of revenue is set out in note 2 to the financial statements and includes the policies on the deferral of revenue and multiple-element contracts.
Refer to page 77 where this is included as a significant matter in the Audit Committee report.
In the prior year we had recognised a key audit matter in respect of the accuracy, completeness and occurrence of manual adjustments to airtime revenue.
In view of the low incidence of issues identified in prior periods, this is no longer considered a key audit matter.
How the scope of our We have evaluated the design and implementation of controls relevant to complex contracts and controls designed to ensure audit responded to accounting judgements taken are reasonable.
the key audit matter We have met with management, both from within finance and in the market-facing business to discuss results in each business unit and as a whole to gain an understanding of significant trends and transactions and to inform our substantive testing.
We have obtained and reviewed signed contracts and contract amendments to identify key terms and areas of accounting complexity under IFRS 15.
Where these are classified contracts we have involved our security cleared specialists to review these contracts on our behalf with oversight from the Group audit team.
We have obtained and challenged managements accounting analysis and judgements taken, reviewing these for bias that could result in material misstatement due to fraud or error.
We have done this through consulting our Firms technical accounting specialists on complex judgements and evaluating the substance of the contracts through our knowledge of the business.
Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory.
We had no significant findings to report to the Audit Committee in respect of the accounting for complex contracts.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 111 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 111 ACCOUNTING FOR CAPITALISED DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE Key audit matter The Group capitalised significant internal labour costs, external costs and qualifying borrowing costs in respect of major capital description projects, most notably relating to satellite programmes and associated infrastructure such as the Global Xpress programme, European Aviation Network and the Inmarsat-6 constellation of satellites.
There is a key audit matter, whether due to fraud or error, in respect of valuation and allocation of assets, that costs which do not meet the criteria for capitalisation in accordance with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, IAS 38 Intangible Assets and IAS 23 Borrowing Costs are inappropriately recorded on the balance sheet rather than expensed or that costs continue to be held on the balance sheet despite no longer meeting the relevant capitalisation criteria.
The Groups policy on the capitalisation of assets is included in note 2 to the financial statements.
As shown in note 13 to the financial statements, property, plant and equipment of $474.6m 2017: $615.0m was capitalised in the year, of which $449.6m 2017: $351.6m relates to assets in the course of construction.
As shown in note 14 to the financial statements, intangible assets of $98.0m 2017: $88.8m were capitalised in the year.
As disclosed in note 9 to the financial statements, capitalised borrowing costs totalled $43.7m 2017: $40.2m in the year.
Refer to page 78 where this is included as a significant matter in the Audit Committee report.
How the scope of our We have evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect of the processes and procedures which govern audit responded to the capitalisation of development costs, and tested operating effectiveness of controls in respect of internal labour costs.
the key audit matter We have met the project leaders for the most financially significant capital projects, which account for 92% of current year capital expenditure, to corroborate the project status, feasibility of completion, impact of Brexit and other geopolitical risks, and performance against budget, including investigation of any deviations from budget.
This process enabled us to focus on projects we considered to have a higher risk of misstatement.
In addition, we have carried out sample-based testing in relation to each element of capitalised costs including inspecting supporting evidence for a sample of the costs capitalised, understanding the nature of these costs and considering whether they meet the capitalisation requirements of IAS 16 and IAS 38.
We reviewed the ageing profile of assets in the course of construction, to determine whether the ongoing technical feasibility and intended completion of the project could be demonstrated.
For a sample of assets which entered service in the period we inspected supporting evidence to determine whether depreciation was commenced at a time in accordance with IAS 16.
In relation to borrowing costs we obtained the supporting calculations and verified the inputs to the calculation, including testing a sample of cash payments.
Additionally, we tested the mechanical accuracy of the model and reviewed the model to determine whether the borrowing costs for completed projects are no longer being capitalised and accounting is therefore in line with the requirements of IAS 23.
Key observations Our audit testing was completed satisfactorily, and we concur with the judgements management has taken in determining that capital assets meet the capitalisation criteria of IAS 16, IAS 23 and IAS 38.
We did not identify any audit misstatements that warranted reporting to the Audit Committee.
112 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 112 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC CONTINUED CLASSIFICATION AND DISCLSOURE OF THE CONVERTIBLE BOND Key audit matter On 9 September 2016, the Group issued $650m of 3.875% convertible bonds due 9 September 2023.
This bond is a net settled description instrument which is currently convertible by bondholders into cash and possibly equity depending on the conversion price, which is linked to the Groups equity share price.
Following a takeover offer during the year, which led to a significant non cash net financing cost at the half year, we identified a key audit matter in respect of whether the convertible bond is correctly classified as a non-current liability and whether the disclosures relating to the convertible bond are appropriate.
Under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements a liability is classified as current if the entity does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting period.
Under the terms of the convertible bond, the Company is unable to prevent a bondholder from converting.
However as the Groups equity share price remains significantly below the conversion price of the bonds $13.41, any bondholder who converts their Convertible Bond, rather than selling it on the market, would make a material loss.
As such this conversion option is not considered substantive.
As shown in note 20 the convertible bond has a debt component with a carrying value of $569.4m 2017: $555.0m and an embedded derivative component valued at $148.8m 2017: $125.7m.
The Groups policy on the accounting for convertible bonds is included in note 2 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our We have evaluated the design and implementation of controls relating to accounting for the convertible bond.
audit responded to the We have performed the following procedures: key audit matter involved our technical accounting specialists to support our review of the convertible bond agreement challenged whether the embedded options were substantive through the performance of Black-Scholes analysis of future share price expectations evaluated whether the change of control feature should trigger presentation of the whole instrument as a current liability and evaluated the appropriateness of the disclosure of the convertible bond in the financial statements Key observations We concur with the treatment of the convertible bond as a non-current liability.
We note that the Group has put in place an additional control to monitor the performance of the convertible bond over time and to reflect any changes needed to the accounting in the financial statements.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality $16.0m 2017: $18.0m $13.9m 2017: $15.7m Basis for determining We determined materiality using a range of forecast Parent Company materiality equates to 3% of net assets, materiality benchmarks and this represented 2.5% of EBITDA 2017: 2.5%, which has been capped at the highest level of component 1.3% of revenue 2017: 1.3% and 7.6% of profit before tax materiality 2017: same basis.
2017: 7.6% adjusted to remove the volatility described above.
EBITDA is reconciled to statutory profit before tax on page 39.
Rationale for the We consider the use of a number of benchmarks in determining The Parent Company exists as a holding company therefore benchmark applied materiality to be appropriate since a number of measures we have used net assets as the basis for materiality.
are relevant to the users of the financial statements, including EBITDA.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $800k 2017: $900k, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 113 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 113 AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work performed in the following locations: London, United Kingdom St. Johns, Canada and Reston, United States With the exception of one specific part of the Inmarsat Government business, where we used a component audit team, we performed the Group audit with one integrated audit team led from London.
The supervision of the audit team included the London team visiting the members of the audit team located in St. Johns and Reston.
We determined there to be three components in the Group, as follows: The core Inmarsat business unit headquartered in London with operations also in St. Johns The Inmarsat Government retail business in Reston and Non-core entities, which include Inmarsat Australia Pty Ltd, based in Sydney, Australia The Inmarsat Government retail business and non-core entities are considered to be separate components as they had a separate financial control environment during the year.
The core Inmarsat component was subject to a full scope audit, the Inmarsat Government component to an audit of specified account balances and limited procedures were performed on the non-core component due to its relative financial significance.
The components subject to a full scope audit represent the principal business units and account for 99.8% 2017: 99.8% of the Groups net assets, 98.8% 2017: 99.0% of the Groups revenue and 99.9% 2017: 98.8% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the three locations was executed at levels of materiality which were lower than the Group materiality and ranged from $4.8m to $13.9m 2017: $5.4m to $15.7m.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no key audit matters of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Senior Statutory Auditor met with Inmarsat Government component management in 2018 and last performed a site visit in 2017.
For this component we involved the component audit partner and manager in our team briefing, discussed their risk assessment and reviewed documentation of the findings from their work.
OTHER INFORMATION The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to report in respect of included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
these matters Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
114 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 114 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC CONTINUED RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
EXTENT TO WHICH THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
IDENTIFYING AND ASSESSING POTENTIAL RISKS RELATED TO IRREGULARITIES In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud and the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations discussing among the engagement team, significant component teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations, and IT, regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: accounting for capitalised development expenditure and accounting for complex contracts.
obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules and tax legislation in the jurisdictions it operates in.
In addition, compliance with terms of the Groups operating licence were fundamental to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
AUDIT RESPONSE TO RISKS IDENTIFIED As a result of performing the above, we identified accounting for complex contracts and accounting for capitalised development expenditure as key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above enquiring of management, the audit committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and reviewing internal audit reports and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements | Consolidated financial statements 115 Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements | Consolidated financial statements 115 REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of We have nothing to report in respect of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be these matters.
audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
OTHER MATTERS AUDITOR TENURE On recommendation of the audit committee following a successful tender in 2016, we were appointed by the Company at the Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 13 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2006 to 31 December 2018.
CONSISTENCY OF THE AUDIT REPORT WITH THE ADDITIONAL REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
PAUL FRANEK FCA SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 18 March 2019
