FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS the Financial Statements have been the Directors statement set out on REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF prepared in accordance with the page 35 in the Financial Statements INTEGRAFIN HOLDINGS PLC requirements of the Companies Act about whether the Directors 2006: and, as regards the group considered it appropriate to adopt Opinion Financial Statements, Article 4 of the going concern basis of accounting the IAS Regulation.
in preparing the Financial Statements We have audited the Financial and the Directors identification of Statements of IntegraFin Holdings plc Basis for opinion any material uncertainties to the the parent company and its Group and the parent companys subsidiaries the Group for the year We conducted our audit in accordance ability to continue to do so over a ended 30 September 2018 which with International Standards on period of at least twelve months comprise the Consolidated and Auditing UK ISAs UK and from the date of approval of the Company Statement of Profit and Loss applicable law.
Our responsibilities Financial Statements: and Other Comprehensive Income, under those standards are further Consolidated and Company Statement described in the Auditors responsibilities whether the Directors statement of Financial Position, Consolidated and for the audit of the Financial Statements relating to going concern required Company Statement of Cash Flows, section of our Report.
We are under the Listing Rules in accordance Consolidated and Company Statement independent of the Group and the with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is of Changes in Equity and notes to the parent company in accordance with materially inconsistent with our Financial Statements, including a the ethical requirements that are knowledge obtained in the audit: or summary of significant accounting relevant to our audit of the Financial the Directors explanation set out policies.
The financial reporting Statements in the UK, including the on page 35 in the Annual Report as framework that has been applied in FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to how they have assessed the their preparation is applicable law and to listed public interest entities, prospects of the Group, over what International Financial Reporting and we have fulfilled our other ethical period they have done so and why Standards IFRSs as adopted by the responsibilities in accordance with they consider that period to be European Union and, as regards the these requirements.
We believe that appropriate, and their statement as parent company Financial Statements, the audit evidence we have obtained to whether they have a reasonable as applied in accordance with the is sufficient and appropriate to expectation that the Group will be provisions of the Companies Act 2006. provide a basis for our opinion.
able to continue in operation and In our opinion the Financial Statements: meet its liabilities as they fall due Conclusions relating to principal over the period of their assessment, giv e a true and fair view of the risks, going concern and viability including any related disclosures state of the Groups and of the statement drawing attention to any necessary parent companys affairs as at We have nothing to report in respect qualifications or assumptions.
30 September 2018 and of the of the following information in the Groups and parent companys annual report, in relation to which the profit for the year then ended: ISAs UK require us to report to you the Group Financial Statements whether we have anything material have been properly prepared in to add or draw attention to: accordance with IFRSs as adopted the disclosures in the annual report by the European Union: set out on page 31 that describe the the parent company Financial principal risks and explain how they Statements have been properly are being managed or mitigated: prepared in accordance with IFRSs the directors confirmation set out on as adopted by the European Union page 34 in the Annual Report that they and as applied in accordance with have carried out a robust assessment the provisions of the Companies Act of the principal risks facing the group, 2006: and including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Key audit matters significant assessed risks of material engagement team.
These matters misstatement whether or not due to were addressed in the context of our Key audit matters are those matters fraud that we identified.
These matters audit of the Financial Statements as a that, in our professional judgement, included those which had the greatest whole, and in forming our opinion were of most significance in our audit effect on: the overall audit strategy, thereon, and we do not provide a of the Financial Statements of the the allocation of resources in the separate opinion on these matters.
current period and include the most audit: and directing the efforts of the Matter Audit response IT Risk and Revenue Our procedures focussed on the key IT processes and controls over IT systems critical to Recognition the recognition and calculation of revenue.
The Groups revenue is We updated our understanding of the Groups key IT applications, processes and controls made up of distinct that drive the recognition and calculation of revenue by carrying out walk-through procedures.
components, primarily We then performed the following procedures: from fees due from investment administration We tested the operating effectiveness of the IT General Controls ITGCs governing services, life assurance Logical Access Control, Program Change Control and Data Processing Management: business and consultancy We tested the operational effectiveness of relevant application interfaces: services.
We performed testing on relevant reports and information extracted from the IT system There is a presumption to ensure accuracy and completeness of information produced by the entity IPE : and associated with revenue that a fraud risk exists In respect of the migration that occurred in the year of a key accounting system we due to its nature as the performed testing to show that the access rights were transferred on a like for like main driver of profit for basis, and further tested that a trial balance reconciliation was performed and signed the Group.
off by management to confirm that the transfer was complete and accurate.
Revenue is automatically Controls testing: calculated by the IT We tested the controls in place over accuracy of inputs into the trading system, as these system based on Transact represent key controls over the accuracy and completeness of revenue recognition: published rates.
Due to the high level of We tested controls in place covering the identification and resolution of rejected trades automation involved by to provide assurance over revenue recognised: and both the client and audit We tested the controls in place covering the approval of fee exceptions, as changes in team, any fraud or error rates could affect revenue recognised.
associated with revenue recognition may result in Tests of detail and substantive analytical procedures: a material misstatement We tested the accuracy and completeness of revenue by performing a recalculation of of the Financial key income streams including annual commission: buy commission and wrapper fee Statements.
This was then compared against the amount recognised in the Financial Because of the level of Statements: automation involved and We performed data analytics procedures on trades from the underlying database within because of the significant the IT system to identify revenue items that appeared to be irregular in relation to our effect that a weakness or understanding of the normal course of business and then investigated any anomalies failure in the IT system identified e. g. duplicate trades.
For trades that appeared to be anomalies, we obtained over revenue may cause, an understanding of their nature and corroborated this against the underlying client this is considered to be a system and other records to confirm validity: and key audit matter.
We have assessed the revenue accounting policies and confirmed they are applicable to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
84 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements.
We consider materiality to be the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, could influence the economic decisions of reasonable users that are taken on the basis of the Financial Statements.
Importantly, misstatements below these levels will not necessarily be evaluated as immaterial as we also take account of the nature of identified misstatements, and the particular circumstances of their occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Materiality FY 2018 Basis for materiality Overall Materiality 2.05m 5% of profit on ordinary activities before taxation attributable to shareholders of 40.9 million Materiality for policyholder assets and liabilities and 146.89m 1% of total assets of 14.69 million associated income statement line items We consider profit before tax to be the investment contract liabilities.
We agreed with the Audit Committee most significant determinant of the that we would report to the committee Therefore using total assets is all individual audit differences identified Groups financial performance used by appropriate for determining this during the course of our audit in shareholders.
Based on the guidance materiality level.
For policyholder on the audit of insurers issued in the For each component in the scope assets and liabilities and associated United Kingdom issued by the Financial of our group audit, we allocated a income statement line items we Reporting Council we have applied a materiality that is less than our agreed with the Audit Committee that higher materiality for the policyholder overall group materiality.
we would report to the committee all assets and liabilities, solely for the individual audit differences identified purpose of identifying and evaluating Audits of the components were during the course of our audit in excess the effect of misstatements that are performed at a materiality level of 2.94 million.
We also agreed to likely only to lead to a reclassification calculated by reference to a proportion report differences below these between line items within assets and of Group materiality appropriate to the thresholds that, in our view, warranted liabilities.
The entities manage relative scale of the business concerned.
investment linked assets on behalf of For components out of scope of our their clients long-term insurance There were no misstatements Group audit and considered nonbusiness.
Any liability owed to its identified during the course of our significant, these components were client is covered by the assets held by audit that were individually, or in principally subject to analytical review the entities and the investment return aggregate, considered to be material derived on the associated assets is procedures, together with additional in terms of their absolute monetary offset by the change in provision for testing over audit risk areas.
value or on qualitative grounds.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued An overview of the scope considered the risk of acts by the of our audit Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, We carried out a full scope audit.
These included but Our audit approach was developed were not limited to compliance with by obtaining an understanding of the Companies Act 2006, the FCA listing Groups activities and the overall and Disclosure Transparency Rules control environment.
Based on this DTR, the principles of the UK understanding we assessed those Corporate Governance Code, industry aspects of the Groups transactions practice represented by IFRS, as and balances which were most likely adopted by the European Union.
to give rise to a material misstatement.
We designed audit procedures to As part of designing our audit, we respond to the risk, recognising that determined materiality and assessed the risk of not detecting a material the risks of material misstatement in misstatement due to fraud is higher the Financial Statements.
In particular, than the risk of not detecting one we looked at where the Directors resulting from error, as fraud may made subjective judgements.
involve deliberate concealment by, Seven of the components within for example, forgery, misrepresentations the Group required an audit of their or through collusion.
Of these, We focussed on laws and regulations five components were considered that could give rise to a material financially significant as they each misstatement in the Group Financial either contributed greater than 15% Statements.
Our tests included, of the Groups profit before tax, net but were not limited to: assets or total expenses.
The remaining two components required an audit agreement of the financial due to Company law requirements.
statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation: Of the in scope components, five components were audited by BDO enquiries of management: LLP while two of the components review of minutes of board meetings were audited by KPMG, which throughout the period: and contributed 55% of profit before tax.
considering the effectiveness of In respect of the two non-significant control environment in monitoring components, which contributed 3% compliance with laws and regulations of profit before tax, the Group audit team performed certain audit There are inherent limitations in the procedures over the financial audit procedures described above information relevant to the and the further removed consolidated Financial Statements.
noncompliance with laws and regulations is from the events and These procedures were performed to transactions reflected in the Financial an appropriate level of materiality Statements, the less likely we would having regard to the level of Group become aware of it.
As in all of our materiality descripted above as well audits we also addressed the risk of as aggregation risk.
All significant management override of internal components of the Group have controls, including testing journals conterminous year ends.
and evaluating whether there was We gained an understanding of the evidence of bias by the Directors that legal and regulatory framework represented a risk of material applicable to the Group and the misstatement due to fraud.
industry in which it operates, and 86 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Other information Groups performance, business and Transparency Rules sourcebook model and strategy, is materially made by the Financial Conduct The other information comprises inconsistent with our knowledge Authority the FCA Rules, is the information included in the obtained in the audit: or consistent with the Financial Annual Report, other than the Statements and has been prepared Financial Statements and our Audit committee reporting in accordance with applicable legal auditors report thereon.
The set out on page 46 The section requirements: and Directors are responsible for the describing the work of the Audit other information.
Our opinion on the Committee does not appropriately information about the Companys Financial Statements does not cover address matters communicated by corporate governance code and the other information and, except to us to the Audit Committee: or practices and about its administrative, the extent otherwise explicitly stated management and supervisory Directors statement of compliance in our report, we do not express any bodies and their committees with the UK Corporate Governance form of assurance conclusion complies with rules 7.2.
3 Code set out on page 41 The parts thereon.
In connection with our audit and 7.2.
of the Directors statement required of the Financial Statements, our under the Listing Rules relating to responsibility is to read the other Matters on which we are required the Companys compliance with the information and, in doing so, consider to report by exception UK Corporate Governance Code whether the other information is containing provisions specified for In light of the knowledge and materially inconsistent with the review by the auditor in accordance understanding of the Group and the Financial Statements or our with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not parent company and its environment knowledge obtained in the audit or properly disclose a departure from obtained in the course of the audit, otherwise appears to be materially a relevant provision of the UK we have not identified material misstated.
If we identify such Corporate Governance Code.
misstatements in: material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are the Strategic Report or the Opinions on other required to determine whether there Directors Report: or matters prescribed by the is a material misstatement in the Companies Act 2006 the information about internal Financial Statements or a material control and risk management misstatement of the other In our opinion, the part of the systems in relation to financial information.
If, based on the work Directors Remuneration Report to be reporting processes and about share we have performed, we conclude that audited has been properly prepared capital structures, given in there is a material misstatement of in accordance with the Companies compliance with rules 7.2.
5 and the other information, we are Act 2006.
required to report that fact.
In our opinion, based on the work We have nothing to report in respect We have nothing to report in this regard.
undertaken in the course of the audit: of the following matters in relation to In this context, we also have nothing the information given in the which the Companies Act 2006 requires to report in regard to our responsibility Strategic Report and the Directors us to report to you if, in our opinion: to specifically address the following Report for the financial year for adequate accounting records have items in the other information and to which the Financial Statements are not been kept by the parent report as uncorrected material prepared is consistent with the company, or returns adequate for misstatements of the other information Financial Statements and those our audit have not been received where we conclude that those items reports have been prepared in from branches not visited by us: or meet the following conditions: accordance with applicable legal requirements: the parent company Financial Fair, balanced and underst andable Statements and the part of the set out on page 82 By the the information about internal Directors remuneration report to be Directors that they consider the control and risk management audited are not in agreement with the Annual Report and Financial systems in relation to financial accounting records and returns: or Statements taken as a whole is fair, reporting processes and about share balanced and understandable and capital structures, given in certain disclosures of Directors provides the information necessary compliance with rules 7.2.
5 and remuneration specified by law are for shareholders to assess the 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure Guidance not made: or INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Auditors responsibilities for the we have not received all the audit of the Financial Statements information and explanations we require for our audit: or Our objectives are to obtain a corporate governance statement reasonable assurance about whether has not been prepared by the the Financial Statements as a whole parent company.
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to Responsibilities of Directors issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is As explained more fully in the a high level of assurance, but is not a Statement of Directors Responsibilities guarantee that an audit conducted in set out on page 82, the Directors are accordance with ISAs UK will always responsible for the preparation of the detect a material misstatement when Financial Statements and for being it exists.
Misstatements can arise from satisfied that they give a true and fair fraud or error and are considered view, and for such internal control as material if, individually or in the the Directors determine is necessary aggregate, they could reasonably be to enable the preparation of Financial expected to influence the economic Statements that are free from decisions of users taken on the basis material misstatement, whether due of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our In preparing the Financial Statements, responsibilities for the audit of the the Directors are responsible for Financial Statements is located on assessing the Groups and the parent the Financial Reporting Councils companys ability to continue as a website at: www.
uk going concern, disclosing, as .
applicable, matters related to going This description forms part of our concern and using the going concern auditors report.
basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
88 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Other matters which we are Use of our report required to address This report is made solely to the Following the recommendation of the Companys members, as a body, Audit Committee, we were appointed in accordance with Chapter 3 of by the Board of Directors to audit Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. the Financial Statements for the Our audit work has been undertaken year ending 30 September 2011 so that we might state to the and subsequent financial periods.
Companys members those matters The period of total uninterrupted we are required to state to them in engagement is 8 years, covering the an auditors report and for no other years ending 30 September 2011 to purpose.
To the fullest extent 30 September 2018. permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone The non-audit services prohibited by other than the Company and the the FRCs Ethical Standard were not Companys members as a body, provided to the Group or the parent for our audit work, for this report, company and we remain independent or for the opinions we have formed.
of the Group and the parent company in conducting our audit.
Our audit opinion is consistent Neil Fung-On with the additional report to the Senior Statutory Auditor Audit Committee.
For and on behalf of BDO LLP, Statutory Auditor London 12 December 2018 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 89
