102 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 AUDITOR's REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The financial reporting framework that REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF has been applied in their preparation is INTERMEDIATE CAPITAL GROUP PLC applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent Report on the audit of the company financial statements, as applied financial statements in accordance with the provisions of the In our opinion: Companies Act 2006. the financial statements give a true and fair Basis for opinion view of the state of the Groups and of the We conducted our audit in accordance parent companys affairs as at 31 March with International Standards on Auditing 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
then ended: Our responsibilities under those standards the Group financial statements have are further described in the auditors been properly prepared in accordance responsibilities for the audit of the financial with International Financial Reporting statements section of our report.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We are independent of the group and the European Union: parent company in accordance with the the parent company financial statements ethical requirements that are relevant to have been properly prepared in our audit of the financial statements in the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard the European Union and as applied in as applied to listed public interest entities, accordance with the provisions of the and we have fulfilled our other ethical Companies Act 2006: and responsibilities in accordance with these the financial statements have been requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit prepared in accordance with the services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical requirements of the Companies Act Standard were not provided to the group or 2006 and, as regards the Group the parent company.
financial statements, Article 4 of the We believe that the audit evidence we have IAS Regulation.
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to The financial statements comprise: provide a basis for our opinion.
the Consolidated Income Statement: We agreed with the directors adoption the Consolidated and Parent Company of the going concern basis of accounting Statements of Comprehensive Income: and we did not identify any such material the Consolidated and Parent Company uncertainties.
However, because not Statements of Financial Position: all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee the Consolidated and Parent Company as to the Groups ability to continue as a Statements of Cash Flow: going concern.
the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 32.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 103 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Valuation of unquoted equities, warrants and Collateralised Loan Note Obligations CLO Loan Notes Impairment of loans and equity investments classified as available for sale Tax Provisions Management fee recognition Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 12.2million 2017: 10.8million.
A lower materiality of 4.8million 2017: 3.7million has been applied for the fund management revenue stream.
Scoping We performed a full scope audit on components representing 96% of the Groups profit before tax and 95% of the Groups net assets.
Significant changes in our approach There have been no significant changes to our audit scope during the year.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material to report, We have reviewed the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it add or draw attention to in appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material respect of these matters.
uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material to report, Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we add or draw attention to in obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of respect of these matters.
the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 30 to 33 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors' confirmation on page 29 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 29 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
104 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 AUDITOR's REPORT CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
VALUATION OF UNQUOTED EQUITIES, WARRANTS AND CLO LOAN NOTES Key audit matter description Unquoted equities, warrants and CLO Loan Notes represented 248million 2017: 297million, 18% of Group net assets at 31 March 2018.
Valuing unquoted equities, warrants and CLO Loan Notes requires management to make a number of judgements, including the valuation methodology.
For unquoted equities management predominantly adopt a Market Approach, where the private company invested in is compared to similar listed companies.
Trading multiples of EBITDA are the most common method applied by management.
Key judgement is applied by management in determining the suitability of the listed comparable companies and any discount or premium applied to the trading multiple.
CLO Loan Notes are securities backed by corporate loans.
As a CLO Loan Note holder, ICG receives scheduled payments from the underlying loans.
Therefore a key judgement in determining the value of the Loan Note is the risk of the borrower of the underlying loans defaulting, and or the timing of the repayment.
As the above valuations are sensitive to these judgments, there is a risk that small changes in key assumptions can have a significant impact on fair value and therefore reported Gains on Investments in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty in relation to valuations and valuation techniques and inputs, as well as the significant unobservable inputs are disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key We assessed the Groups valuation methodology and challenged its appropriateness.
audit matter We evaluated the design and implementation of related controls to determine that appropriate oversight from senior investment executives had been exercised within the valuations process.
We also tested the operating effectiveness of controls around unquoted equity valuations.
We tested a sample of unquoted equities and warrants by determining the appropriateness of the underlying data and assumptions, specifically including discount rates and comparable companies.
We verified the inputs to the valuations specifically to the management accounts and audited financial statements of the investee companies.
We reviewed independent information, such as news items, for the investee companies to identify any impact on managements valuation.
We assessed the reasonableness of management estimates in previous valuations by performing a retrospective review of valuations based on recent exits.
We selected a sample of CLO Loan Notes, comprising different tranches of debt in CLO vehicles.
For our sample, we used a Discounted Cash Flow approach to recalculate the fair value.
We used our internal specialists to challenge the significant assumptions with reference to independent sources: specifically the risk of the borrower defaulting and the timing of the repayments.
Key observations We determined the valuation methodology for the unquoted equity valuations, CLO Loan Notes and warrants to be appropriate, and are satisfied that the assumptions that management have made are appropriate and that the valuation at year end is acceptable.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 105 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMPAIRMENT OF LOANS AND EQUITY INVESTMENTS CLASSIFIED AS AVAILABLE FOR SALE Key audit matter description The Groups impairment charge is 19million for the year ending 31 March 2018.
The identification of impairment events and the determination of the impairment charge require the application of significant judgment by management.
There is a risk that management fail to identify an impairment event or the quantum of the impairment charge is inaccurate.
The Groups impairment policy is disclosed in note 9 to the financial statements.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty in relation to impairment are disclosed in note 9 to the financial statements.
The description of this key audit matter should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 53.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key We tested the design and implementation of key controls around impairments.
We reviewed the audit matter whole loan portfolio for impairment indicators, including equity assets classified as available for sale.
We assessed the completeness of impairments for loans we deemed at high risk of impairment by reviewing independent information, such as publicly available information and investee financial reports.
Where ICG expected a loan to be repaid upon the sale of a business, we challenged whether the Enterprise value was an indicator of an impairment.
For a sample of impairments that occurred during the year, we assessed management assumptions relating to the timing and recognition of the impairment events and charges and corroborated them to appropriate evidence.
We also considered whether any impaired assets classified as available for sale have been correctly recycled through the Consolidated Income Statement.
Key observations We are satisfied with managements identification of impairment events and the charges recognised in the year.
TAX PROVISIONS Key audit matter description The Groups tax credit for the year is 51.7million 2017: 34.2million charge, 27.1million of which relates to managements release of a tax provision that was recorded in prior years.
This is disclosed in note 12 to the Groups financial statements.
The Group earns material investment returns from investment funds that are domiciled in low tax jurisdictions.
Following a detailed analysis performed by management and the agreement of recent tax returns with HMRC, there is increased management confidence that the tax arrangements are compliant with tax legislation and the provision previously recognised is not required.
The Group currently has a low risk status with HMRC and management have not received any enquiries from HMRC in recent years.
The Groups tax policy is disclosed in note 12 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key We evaluated the design and implementation of key controls around tax, specifically any significant audit matter judgements made with respect to tax provisions and the interpretation and application of tax legislation.
With the assistance of our specialist tax team, we assessed managements compliance with current tax legislation and reviewed the Groups HMRC correspondence during the year to determine if there are any matters under investigation.
This formed the basis of our challenge to management with respect to the tax provisions for the investment returns earned from low tax jurisdictions.
Key observations We agree with the tax credit recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, which included managements release of the 27.1million tax provision in the year.
106 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 AUDITOR's REPORT CONTINUED MANAGEMENT FEE RECOGNITION Key audit matter description Management fees represented 147.5million 24.6% of the Groups revenue.
There is a risk of potential fraud within management fees.
We have also identified a risk that there are errors in the amounts of the management fees reported as there is judgement around the interpretation and application of the terms of the investment management agreements.
Therefore there is a risk that the management fee income recorded has not occurred or is incomplete.
The Groups revenue accounting policy is disclosed in note 1 to the financial statements.
The description of this risk should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 53.
How the scope of our audit We assessed the design and implementation of key controls around the management fee revenue cycle and the responded to the key audit matter reliability of data provided by third party administrators of funds managed by the Group.
We reviewed board minutes to identify any new fund launches to assess if management fees have been recognised on all funds under management.
For a sample of management contracts we obtained the most up to date management and side agreements and determined if the terms of the agreements were interpreted and applied correctly.
For a sample of management fees, we also recalculated that these were in accordance with the fee terms in the management contract.
Key observations We are satisfied that management fees are not materially misstated.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Materiality 12.2million 2017: 10.8million.
A lower materiality threshold of 4.8million 2017: 3.7million has been applied to the Fund Management Company FMC management fee income and FMC administrative expense account balances, transactions and disclosures.
Basis for 1% of Net Assets 2017: 1% Net assets.
1% Net Assets, capped at 70% of Group materiality 2017: 70%.
determining The lower materiality has been based on 5% of profit before tax materiality of the FMC segment.
Rationale for the We considered these measures to be suitable having compared As an investment company, net assets is a key benchmark used benchmark applied to other industry benchmarks and consider them to be key to assess the performance of the company.
measures that the users of the financial statements consider when assessing the performance of the Group.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 107 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group materiality 12.2m Net Component materiality range assets excluding parent 1.9m to 10.4m 1,318m Audit committee reporting threshold 0.25m Net assets Group materiality Performance materiality is the application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, we set performance materiality to 70% 2017: 70% of our materiality, namely 8.5m 2017: 7.6m.
In arriving at 70%, we considered the judgemental nature of the valuations in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the relative value of transactions recorded in the other primary statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 245,000 2017: 215,000 for all items except FMC management fee income and the FMC administrative expense revenue streams.
For these balances we report all misstatements above 95,000 2017: 72,000.
We also report differences below these thresholds that, in our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
In addition, we report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT The Group operates across Europe, Asia and America and is made up of entities within the Fund Management Company FMC and Investment Company IC businesses.
All the key accounting records are maintained in the UK.
We perform our Group scoping on an individual entity by entity basis to determine the significant components or specific balances which may be subject to testing.
In performing this scoping we perform both a quantitative and qualitative assessment of all the entities consolidated into the Group.
Group materiality is used for setting audit scope and the assessment of uncorrected misstatements.
Component materialities, which are lower than Group materiality, are set for work on significant components.
Audit testing for the significant components, was performed at component materiality ranging from 1.9million - 10.4 million.
Our qualitative scoping is based on our understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, current year events and our assessment of the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope on nine significant components 2017: eight which were subject to full scope audits for the year ended 31 March 2018.
We also performed full scope audits on an additional twelve components 2017: three that were considered non-significant from a Group perspective as we perform our statutory audit work on these entities at the same time as the Group audit in order to gain efficiencies.
Specified audit procedures were performed on another seventeen 2017: twelve non-significant components where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the groups operations within the components.
The full scope components represent the most significant subsidiaries of the group, and account for approximately 95% 2017: 98% of the groups net assets and 96% 2017: 92% of the groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
At the parent entity level we tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The audit work on components was carried out by the Group engagement team.
108 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 AUDITOR's REPORT CONTINUED OTHER INFORMATION The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the We have nothing to report in annual report including the Strategic Report, Governance Report and the Other Information section, other than the financial respect of these matters.
statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 109 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
OTHER MATTERS Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Shareholders at the Annual General meeting in 1988 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 1988 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 21 years, covering the years ending 31 March 1988 to 31 March 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
DAVID BARNES SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF DELOITTE LLP STATUTORY AUDITOR LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM 22 MAY 2018
