Independent Auditors' Report Other Information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERTEK GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION In our opinion: Intertek Group plcs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 'IFRS' as adopted by the European Union: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the group consolidated statement of financial position and company balance sheet as at 31 December 2018: the group consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash flows, and the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the company.
Other than those disclosed in the Directors Report, we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview Overall group materiality: 20 million 2017: 20 million, based on 5% of profit before tax.
Overall company materiality: 9.7 million 2017: 5.1 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Materiality We performed full scope audit procedures over 62 legal entities and performed specified audit procedures on a further 5 entities, covering 27 territories in total.
The group engagement team held regular meetings with component teams, and visited the China, UK, USA, Hong Kong, Mexico and Germany teams to understand and supervise the work of these local teams and to make sure that we had a full and comprehensive understanding of the results Audit scope of their work, particularly insofar as it related to the identified key audit matters.
Taken together, the entities over which audit work was performed accounted for 82% of the groups revenue and 90% of the groups statutory profit before tax.
Key audit Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Group.
matters Valuation of current and deferred tax balances Group.
Completeness and valuation of customer claims Group.
Presentation and valuation of acquisitions Group.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 169 Other Information | Independent Auditors' Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERTEK GROUP PLC continued The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to indirect and direct tax laws and anti-bribery laws, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to increase revenue or reduce expenditure, and management bias in accounting estimates.
The group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the group engagement team and or component auditors included: understanding managements approach to ensuring compliance with laws and regulations: enquiries with local, regional and group management: meeting with group and local legal counsel to discuss legal matters: meeting with internal audit: obtaining legal confirmations: testing manual journals and focusing testing on balances and transactions, in addition to those listed as key audit matters below, that are subject to estimation, such as contract assets.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Carrying value of goodwill and intangible We evaluated future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they were assets Group.
drawn up, including comparing them to the latest Board-approved budgets, Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 85 and testing the underlying calculations and assumptions.
and to note 9 in the financial statements.
We identified no issues in this testing.
The group had 874.9m of goodwill and a We used our in-house valuation specialists to evaluate the methodology used further 329.5m of other intangible assets to calculate the value in use of the CGUs and key assumptions including: recognised on the balance sheet at 31 December the discount rate by comparing the cost of capital for the group with 2018.
The carrying values of goodwill and comparable organisations: and intangible assets are dependent on future cash the long-term growth rates by comparing these to publicly available flows of the underlying Cash Generating Units market data on projected growth rates in key territories such as the UK, 'CGUs' and there is a risk that, if these cash USA and China.
flows do not meet the directors expectations, the assets may be impaired.
We concluded that they were within the range of reasonable assumptions based on this information.
Accounting standards require management to perform an annual assessment of the carrying We performed sensitivity analysis around these assumptions.
Having value of goodwill, and other intangible assets are ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually assessed where there are indications that they or collectively would be required for an impairment to arise, are impaired.
As this assessment is based on we considered the likelihood of such a movement occurring.
the future value in use, and a significant amount Our testing did not identify any indicators of impairment, and that it of value is based on the value to perpetuity of would require significant downside changes before any impairment would the CGUs, future cash flows must be estimated, be triggered.
which can be highly judgemental and could significantly impact the carrying value of In addition we assessed the appropriateness of the CGUs used in the impairment the assets.
assessment, the useful economic lives of the intangible assets and the related disclosures, and concluded that these were appropriate.
170 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other Information KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Valuation of current and deferred tax We involved our in-house tax specialists in our testing of the appropriateness of balances Group.
the techniques, estimates and judgements taken in relation to deferred taxation Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 85 and in respect of uncertain tax positions recognised in the and to note 6 in the financial statements.
Provisions in relation to potential tax exposure In assessing uncertain tax positions, we obtained managements calculations are subject to judgement and require the and evaluated the methodology and assumptions used.
selection of estimation techniques and Where relevant, in understanding and evaluating the directors technical determination of estimates, either of which interpretation of tax law in respect of specific transactions that gave rise to could influence the current or deferred tax uncertain tax positions we evaluated: positions.
The group operates in a large number of jurisdictions, which increases third party tax advice received by the group: the risk of non-compliance with international the status of recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries: tax legislation and introduces complex transfer the outturn of previous claims: pricing considerations.
judgemental positions taken in tax returns and current year estimates: and In addition the group has provisions for uncertain changes in tax legislation or interpretation of existing legislation by local tax tax positions relating to both historical and authorities, in particular the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
The recognition and measurement of these items in the financial In assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets, we considered the statements is judgemental, and we focused on likelihood of the group being able to generate sufficient future taxable profits the directors forecasts of future profits against against which to offset accumulated losses, and tested: which to utilise accumulated losses, and the key inputs to the calculation including revenue and profit assumptions, technical interpretation of taxation law in in line with our work over the carrying value of goodwill: and respect to transactions giving rise to deferred the directors ability to accurately forecast future profits where the tax tax assets and uncertain tax positions.
assets will not be recoverable in the foreseeable future.
The procedures above did not identify any issues with regards to the valuation of deferred tax assets and provisions for uncertain tax positions.
Completeness and valuation of customer Where relevant we obtained confirmations from the groups external legal claims Group.
counsels of the existence and details of open claims.
Confirmations were sent Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 85 to both the lawyers associated with the key claims and also additional lawyers and to note 13 in the financial statements.
who Intertek have interacted with throughout the year.
As an assurance provider, the group can be subject We met with legal counsel to discuss certain open or threatened claims to to claims from customers and consumers relating understand the likelihood of an adverse judgement and the potential magnitude to its work, and the geographically diverse nature of the claim.
of the group means there is a risk that one or more We obtained and read the relevant sections of the groups insurance documents, significant claims are omitted from the centrally and checked that any liability cap had been appropriately applied to the maintained claims register.
calculation of provision held against those claims.
Where customer claims may give rise to a future Through our work, we did not identify any material claims that had not liability, the Directors are required to recognise been recorded centrally and provided for, or for which provision either a liability or a contingent liability in the was not appropriate.
As the potential cost is often unknown, management must exercise their judgement in calculating the liability.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 171 Other Information | Independent Auditors' Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERTEK GROUP PLC continued KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Presentation and valuation of acquisitions For these transactions we obtained and read the sale and purchase agreements Group.
'SPAs' in order to gain an understanding of the key terms of each transaction.
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 85 In testing acquisitions during the year we: and to note 10 in the financial statements.
tested that the consideration paid by the group was consistent with The groups strategy is to use acquisitions to the terms of the SPAs: augment organic revenue growth, and during the assessed the appropriateness of the directors identification of intangible year made four acquisitions: Aldo Abela Surveys assets acquired by reference to the SPAs, due diligence reports and other Limited, Proasem S. A. S. NTA Monitor Limited supporting documentation, to identify any assets listed: and Alchemy Investment Holdings, Inc.. obtained the directors calculation of the fair value of intangible assets In addition, the 12-month hindsight period for acquired, and where material corroborated the inputs and assumptions reassessing the provisional purchase price to supporting evidence: allocation in respect of the KJ Tech Services GmbH and Acumen Security LLC acquisitions closed verified that the accounting treatment for each transaction, and any resulting during the year.
liabilities, is consistent with the accounting standard requirements: assessed the reasonableness of the inputs and assumptions used in Judgement is required in determining the amount calculating contingent consideration: and of consideration paid and the valuation of assets and liabilities acquired.
In addition, assessed the accounting policies applied by the new subsidiaries against the the disclosure requirements in respect of accounting standard requirements, particularly in relation to deferred revenue.
We noted no material exceptions through performing these procedures.
For the acquisitions made in 2017, in order to test the directors final assessment of the purchase price allocation, we: obtained evidence from internal and external advisors in relation to the fair value of liabilities recognised on acquisition, to evaluate whether the valuation remained appropriate, or that any adjustments were supported: and evaluated whether all fair value adjustments, and any resulting impact, had been appropriately recognised and accounted for.
Based on the evidence obtained, we did not identify any indications that the fair value adjustments identified by management were inappropriate.
We are also satisfied that the disclosures included in note 10 are appropriate.
We determined that there were no key audit matters specifically applicable to the company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The group is split into three reporting segments: Products, Trade and Resources and the operations are spread across over 100 countries and approximately 500 legal entities.
The results are not consolidated at a country or regional level, so we determined that the most appropriate level at which to scope our audit was the legal entity level.
When determining our scope, the key financial measure used was profit before tax.
Due to the disaggregation of the groups results across the various entities, we identified only two individually financially significant legal entities, both within China.
As a result we instructed our component team to perform audits of the complete financial information of these entities.
We then considered the 50 countries in which PwC are appointed statutory auditor.
Of these, 25 accounted for the majority of external profit, and we therefore focused our considerations on these territories.
Within these countries, we then excluded any legal entities with no external balances, such as intermediate holding companies, and those entities with highly immaterial revenue, leaving 55 legal entities for which we instructed our local teams to perform audits of the complete financial information for the purpose of the group audit.
In certain territories, notably the USA, Canada and Brazil, there is no statutory audit requirement and so we considered whether procedures needed to be performed to supplement our coverage.
We selected seven of the largest entities in the US and Canada for full scope audits, representing those with the largest contribution to Group profit, and a further one entity in the USA and two entities in Brazil, over which we performed specified procedures over the complete financial information.
We also identified a further two entities in Japan over which we instructed specific audit procedures to be performed over revenue and receivables to supplement coverage over these key financial line items.
172 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other Information In total we performed procedures over 67 legal entities in 27 countries, which together accounted for 82% of the groups revenue and 90% of the groups profit before tax.
During the year, members of the group engagement team visited the China, UK, USA, Hong Kong, Mexico and Germany component teams, and we held planning workshops with seven of the largest in scope component teams, in order to understand and supervise the audit approach in those locations and to inform them of our audit approach and strategy.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the group level including audit procedures over material head office entities, tax, legal claims, impairment assessments and consolidation adjustments, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Overall materiality 20 million 2017: 20 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for We believe that profit before tax is the primary These are a single set of company financial benchmark applied measure used by the members in assessing statements for an entity which has no external the performance of the group.
revenue and takes advantage of the exemption offered under S408 of Companies Act 2006 not to present its income statement in its financial statements - which are presented alongside the group financial statements within the Annual Report.
As a result, the determination of materiality was based on the total assets of this non-trading holding company within the group.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.3million and 9.7million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million group audit 2017: 900,000 and 1 million company audit 2017: 900,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: REPORTING OBLIGATION OUTCOME We are required to report if we have anything We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
material to add or draw attention to in respect of However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, the directors statement in the financial statements this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups and companys ability about whether the directors considered it to continue as a going concern.
For example, the terms on which appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of the United Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which is accounting in preparing the financial statements currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to and the directors identification of any material evaluate all of the potential implications on the groups and companys trade, uncertainties to the groups and the companys customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement We have nothing to report.
relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 173 Other Information | Independent Auditors' Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERTEK GROUP PLC continued REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 'CA06', ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority 'FCA' require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 55 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 54 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 85, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 83 to 88 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 174 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other Information RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 113, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
APPOINTMENT Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 25 May 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 3 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2018.
Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 4 March 2019 The maintenance and integrity of the Intertek Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination offinancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 175
