Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, intu properties plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups loss and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the Group and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2018: the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Group and Company statements of cash flows, and the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 8 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Context During the year to 31 December 2018, there have been no significant changes to business operations, however, we note that shopping centre valuations have been impacted by weakened sentiment toward the retail market given changing consumer behaviours and the increased number of retailers entering into administration or Company Voluntary Arrangements CVAs, resulting in an outward shift in yields and lower assumed rental cash flows.
A 13.3 per cent revaluation deficit has been recognised in respect of the investment and development property portfolio, including property held by joint ventures.
The most significant transactional activity was in the completion of the disposal of a 50 per cent interest in intu Chapelfield.
Our audit approach is largely consistent with the prior year.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 94.4m 2017: 107.9m, based on 1% of Total Assets.
Overall Company materiality: 34.6m 2017: 38.8m, based on 1% of Total Assets.
Materiality The Group and Company financial statements are produced by the Groups central finance department using a single, consolidated general ledger, and the whole business was subject to the same audit scope.
Audit scope Valuation of investment and development property.
Key audit matters 98 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 98 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the Group and the Company and its industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to the Real Estate Investment Trust REIT status, and we considered the extent to which noncompliance might have a material effect on the financial statements of the Group and Company.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements of the Group and the Company such as the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and UK tax legislation.
We evaluated management incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate manual journal entries to revenue and intentional bias or manipulation of accounting estimates, particularly valuation of investment and development properties.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team included: discussions with management and internal audit, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud and review of the reports made by internal audit: consideration over matters reported on the Groups whistleblowing helpline and the results of managements investigation of such matters: discussions with the Groups internal legal counsel in relation to identified or potential non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud: reviewing relevant meeting minutes including those of the Audit Committee: review of tax compliance with the involvement of our tax specialists in the audit: designing audit procedures to incorporate unpredictability around the nature, timing or extent of our testing of rental income and debtors: procedures relating to the valuation of investment properties described in the related key audit matter below: and identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account combinations.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of Investment and Development Property Assessing the Valuers expertise and objectivity Refer to page 72 Audit Committee report, pages 113 114 We assessed the Valuers qualifications and expertise and read their terms of Accounting policies, page 111 significant use of estimates and engagement with the Group to determine whether there were any matters assumptions and note 14 to the financial statements.
that might have affected their objectivity or may have imposed scope Retail is going through a period of structural change, which limitations upon their work.
We also considered other engagements which combined with the current macroeconomic uncertainty has might exist between the Group and the Valuers.
We found no evidence to resulted in a number of retailer administrations and CVAs and a suggest that the objectivity of any Valuer in their performance of the valuations was compromised.
particularly low level of shopping centre transactions in the current year.
Although it is not unusual for there to be limited Data provided to the Valuers Investment Property transactional activity at the prime level, this adds to the We carried out procedures, on a sample basis, to test whether property specific uncertainty which always exists around valuations.
current information supplied to the Valuers by management reflected the The existence of significant estimation uncertainty, coupled with underlying property records held by the Group and which have been tested the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual during our audit.
property valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material Assumptions and estimates used by the Valuers Investment properties change, warrants specific audit focus in this area.
We read the valuation reports for all properties and attended meetings with each of the Valuers.
Our testing also involved the use of our internal real estate valuation experts who are qualified chartered surveyors.
intu properties plc Annual report 2018 99 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 99 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter The Groups Investment and Development Properties are shopping We confirmed that the valuation approach for each property was in centres and development projects and comprise the majority of the accordance with RICS and suitable for use in determining the carrying value assets in the Group balance sheet, their carrying value amounting to in the Group balance sheet.
We challenged each of the Valuers on the impact 8.0 billion.
on their valuations of the lack of directly comparable shopping centre transactions, each of whom stated that there remains sufficient information The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is inherently available from deals transacted or marketed, alongside wider market analysis subjective due to, among other factors, the individual nature of each and commentary, to form a view on market value.
property, its location and the expected future rental revenues for that particular property.
Moreover, in 2018 there were relatively few Our work focused on the larger properties in the portfolio and those properties relevant UK shopping centre transactions against which to compare where the assumptions used and or year on year capital value movement yield assessments.
suggested a possible outlier versus the rest of the portfolio or the wider shopping centre market, after taking account of property specific factors.
The valuations were carried out by four third party Valuers: CBRE, Knight Frank, Cushman & Wakefield and Jones Lang LaSalle the We questioned the Valuers as to how they had factored in the impact of tenant Valuers.
The Valuers were engaged by the Directors, and administrations and CVAs in to their valuations, obtaining understanding of performed their work in accordance with the Royal Institution of how and why the methodology differed across specific tenants and centres.
Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation Global Standards 2017.
We assessed the investment yields assumed by the Valuers by comparing to an The Valuers used by the Group are well-known firms, with estimated range of expected yields, determined via reference to published considerable experience of the market in which the Group operates.
benchmarks, and analysing the variances in yields between centres across the portfolio.
Investment Property In determining a propertys valuation the Valuers take into account property specific current information such We also considered the reasonableness of other assumptions such as as the current tenancy agreements and rental income attached Estimated Rental Value, void rates and rent-free periods, based on our to the asset.
They then apply other assumptions such as yield accumulated knowledge of property specific activity and performance and with and current market rent, which are influenced by prevailing market reference to work performed over rental income, including focus on recent yields and comparable market transactions, to arrive at the final letting transactions.
Finally, we evaluated year-on-year movements in capital valuation.
Due to the unique nature of each shopping centre, the value with reference to published benchmarks market data for the shopping assumptions to be applied are determined having regard to the centre sector.
individual property characteristics at a granular, unit by unit level, as Where assumptions were outside the expected range or were otherwise well as considering the qualities of the shopping centre as a whole.
deemed unusual, and or there were unexpected movements, we undertook Development Property Development properties are valued using further investigations and, when necessary, held further discussions with the residual appraisal method i. e. by estimating the fair value of the the Valuers.
completed project using the income capitalisation method less It was evident from our interaction with management and the Valuers and estimated costs to completion including a market-based profit our review of the valuation reports that close attention had been paid to each margin providing a return on development risk.
propertys individual characteristics at a granular, unit by unit level, as well as considering the overall quality, geographic location and desirability of the asset as a whole, with wider market analysis, commentary and sentiment also considered.
Development Property In 2018, the principal development property was intu Costa del Sol, which has been valued on a development appraisal basis using an assumption of obtaining final planning permissions for the project.
In relation to this property the Group used external expert reports to assist them in arriving at estimated rental cash flows used for income capitalisation and construction cost assumptions for the development appraisal.
We carried out procedures to assess whether this property specific information supplied to the Valuers by the Group was reasonable and in line with the external expert reports.
We also considered the reasonableness of market assumptions such as investment yields and market-based profit margin, involving our internal real estate valuation experts.
Overall findings Our procedures indicated that the estimates and assumptions used were appropriate in the context of the Groups investment and development property portfolio and reflected recent market transactions and the market circumstances as at year end.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
100 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 100 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
Although the Group has some interests in shopping centre operations outside the UK and the Group is structured as two operating segments, it operates a single reporting process with a centralised accounting function, therefore the whole business was subject to the same audit scope.
The Group and Company financial statements are produced using numbers which are maintained on a single, consolidated trial balance, by the Groups finance department.
The majority of the underlying accounting records are maintained on the Groups single general ledger.
For Manchester Arndale, Cribbs Causeway, Centaurus Retail Park and St Davids, Cardiff their rental income and property expense numbers are submitted quarterly by external property managers to the Groups finance department, who then review and enter the numbers onto the Groups general ledger.
We perform tests of controls over the review of the quarterly submissions and entry onto the Groups general ledger, and tests of details over the numbers within those submissions.
Quarterly submissions are also submitted to the Groups finance department for intu Asturias, intu Puerto Venecia and intu Xanad, by the intu Spain finance team.
We carry out controls testing over these submissions in the same manner as for the UK submissions as above.
We instructed the PwC Spain audit team to perform specified substantive procedures on the submission packs prepared by intu Spain, and held regular discussions with PwC Spain throughout the planning and execution phases of the audit.
We assessed the findings of the work performed by them in order to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality Specific materiality Overall materiality Materiality level 94.4m 2017: 107.9m.
How we determined it 1% of Total Assets.
5% of Underlying Earnings Before 1% of Total Assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied In arriving at this judgement we We have applied this lower In arriving at this judgement we have had regard to the carrying materiality to line items that make have had regard to the carrying value of the Groups assets, up underlying earnings before tax value of the Companys assets, acknowledging that the primary and associates, plus other finance acknowledging that the primary measurement attribute of the costs, on the basis that they merit measurement attribute of the Group is the carrying value of more detailed audit work than the Company is the carrying value of investment property.
This represents overall materiality level would its investment in subsidiaries.
This a consistent year-on-year basis for require, given heightened focus represents a consistent year-on-year determining materiality.
from users of the accounts.
We basis for determining materiality.
have used underlying earnings before tax and associates as a more consistent benchmark, which is not impacted by valuation movements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 9.4m Group audit 2017: 10.8m and 3.5m Company audit 2017: 3.8m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
intu properties plc Annual report 2018 101 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 101 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc continued Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of We have nothing material to add or to draw the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors considered it attention to.
However, because not all appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and future events or conditions can be the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability predicted, this statement is not a guarantee to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval as to the Groups and Companys ability to of the financial statements.
For example, the terms on which the United Kingdom will withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications on the Groups and Companys trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance with We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
102 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 102 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Financial statements Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 60 to 96 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 60 to 96 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 38 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 70 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 96, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 71 to 75 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 103 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 103 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of intu properties plc continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 96, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment On its formation, we were appointed as auditors of Liberty International plc the Companys predecessor for the year ended 31 December 1999 and subsequent financial periods.
Our predecessor firm were auditors of the pre-existing Group, prior to group restructurings and renamings, for the period ended 31 December 1980 and subsequent financial periods.
Considering this, the period of total uninterrupted engagement with the Group is at least 38 years, covering the period ended 31 December 1980 to the year ended 31 December 2018.
Mark Pugh Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 20 February 2019 104 intu properties plc Annual report 2018 104 intu properties plc Annual report 2018
