Annual financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Investec plc Frameworks.
Our responsibilities under ability to continue to adopt the going Opinion concern basis of accounting for a period those standards are further described in of at least twelve months from the We have audited the special purpose the Auditors Responsibilities for the Audit date when the financial statements are financial statements of Investec of the Financial Statements section of our authorised for issue.
Plc theGroup for the year ended report.
We are independent of the Group in 31March2018, which comprise accordance with the ethical requirements Other information the consolidated balance sheet, the that are relevant to our audit of the financial consolidated income statement, the statements in the UK, including the FRCs The other information comprises the consolidated statement of comprehensive Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our information included in the annual report income, statement of changes in equity, other ethical responsibilities in accordance insections 1 pages 4 to 13, section 2 cash flow statement and the related notes with these requirements.
pages 14 to 43, and pages marked as 1 to 57, including a summary of significant unaudited in section 3 pages 44 to 163, We believe that the audit evidence we accounting policies.
The financial reporting other than the financial statements and our have obtained is sufficient and appropriate framework that has been applied in their auditors report thereon.
The directors are to provide a basis for our opinion.
Certain preparation is a special purpose framework responsible for the other information.
disclosures required by the financial comprising the accounting policies set out reporting framework have been presented Our opinion on the financial statements on pages 180 to 188. in Risk Management and Corporate does not cover the other information and, Under the contractual arrangements Governance Report in section 3 of the except to the extent otherwise explicitly implementing the Dual Listed Companies annual report, rather than in the notes to stated in this report, we do not express any structure, Investec plc and Investec the financial statements, and have been form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Limited effectively form a single economic identified as audited.
In connection with our audit of the financial enterprise, in which the economic and statements, our responsibility is to read voting rights of shareholders are equalised.
Emphasis of Matter the other information and, in doing so, In accordance with this structure the Basis of Accounting and consider whether the other information is appropriate presentation under International materially inconsistent with the financial Restriction on Distribution Financial Reporting Standards as adopted statements or our knowledge obtained by the European Union is achieved by and Use in the audit or otherwise appears to be combining the results and the financial materially misstated.
If we identify such We draw attention to the accounting position of both companies using merger material inconsistencies or apparent policies set out on pages 180 to 188 of accounting principles.
Those combined material misstatements, we are required the financial statements, which describes consolidated financial statements are to determine whether there is a material the basis of accounting.
The financial prepared separately so as to show a misstatement in the financial statements statements are prepared to assist the true and fair view in accordance with or a material misstatement of the other members of Investec plc in complying with International Financial Reporting Standards information.
If, based on the work we the financial reporting provisions of the as adopted by the European Union.
have performed, we conclude that there contract referred to above.
As a result, the As explained in the accounting policies set is a material misstatement of the other financial statements may not be suitable out on pages 180 to 188, these special information, we are required to report for another purpose.
Our report is intended purpose financial statements have been thatfact.
solely for the members of Investec plc in prepared to present the financial position, accordance with our engagement letter We have nothing to report in this regard.
results and cash flows of Investec plc and dated 15 June 2018, and should not be its subsidiaries.
For the avoidance of doubt, distributed to or used by parties other than Responsibilities of they exclude Investec Limited and its the members of Investec plc.
not modified in respect of this matter.
management and those charged with governance In our opinion, the accompanying financial Conclusions relating to statements of the Group for the year for the financial ended 31 March 2018 are prepared, in going concern statements allmaterial respects, in accordance with We have nothing to report in respect of the theaccounting policies set out on pages The directors are responsible for the following matters in relation to which the 180 to 188. preparation of the financial statements in ISAs UK require us to report to you where: accordance with the financial reporting the directors use of the going concern provisions under the contractual Basis for Opinion basis of accounting in the preparation of arrangements implementing the Dual We conducted our audit in accordance the financial Listed Companies Structure, and for such with International Standards on Auditing statements is not appropriate: or internal control as management determines UK ISAs UK including ISA UK is necessary to enable the preparation the directors have not disclosed in 800 Revised Special Considerations of financial statements that are free from the financial statements any identified Audits of Financial Statements Prepared material misstatement, whether due to material uncertainties that may cast in Accordance with Special Purpose fraud or error.
significant doubt about the Groups 172 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 Annual financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Investec plc continued In preparing the financial statements, website at https: www.
uk management is responsible for assessing .
This description the Groups ability to continue as a going forms part of our auditors report.
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters Other matter relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Investec plc has prepared a separate management either intends to liquidate the set of statutory financial statements Group or to cease operations, or has no for the year ended 31 March 2018 in realistic alternative but to do so.
accordance with both International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted Those charged with governance are by the European Union and International responsible for overseeing the Groups Financial Reporting Standards as issued financial reporting process.
by the International Accounting Standards Board, and Companies Act 2006, on which Auditors responsibilities we issued a separate auditors report to for the audit of the the shareholders of Investec plc dated 12June2018.
financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from Andy Bates material misstatement, whether due to Senior Statutory Auditor fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
for and on behalf of Reasonable assurance is a high level Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor of assurance, but is not a guarantee London that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a 15June 2018 material misstatement when it exists.
Notes: Misstatementscan arise from fraud or error 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the and are considered material if, individually Investec plc website is the responsibility of or in the aggregate, they could reasonably the directors: the work carried out by the be expected to influence the economic auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors decisions of users taken on the basis of accept no responsibility for any changes that these financial statements.
may have occurred to the annual financial statements since they were initially presented A further description of our on the website.
responsibilitiesfor the audit of the 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing financialstatements is located on the preparation and dissemination of the Financial Reporting Councils annual financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2018 173
