Our Financials Independent auditors report 126 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 134 Consolidated statement of financial position 135 Consolidated statement of cash flows 136 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 138 Company balance sheet 175 Company statement of changes in equity 176 Notes to the Company financial statements 177 Company information 191 124 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 125 12 04 2019 17:10:41 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the Members of IP Group plc We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 1.
Our opinion is unmodified 13 May 2014.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement We have audited the financial statements of IP Group plc is for the five financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018 which have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain comprise the consolidated statement of comprehensive independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical income, the Group consolidated statement of financial requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied position, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Company prohibited by that standard were provided.
balance sheet and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1.
Overview In our opinion: Materiality: 13.
85m 2017: 16.8m group financial 1% 2017: 1% of Total the financial statements give a true and fair view of the statements as a Assets state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs whole as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: Coverage 100% 2017:98.5% of Total Assets the Group financial statements have been properly Key audit matters vs 2017 prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union Event driven Brexit uncertainties IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Recurring risks Valuation of unquoted the parent Company financial statements have been Group and Parent investments properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the Group Recoverability of goodwill provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and New risks Parent Recoverability of investment in the financial statements have been prepared in subsidiary undertakings accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below, the key audit matters in arriving at our audit opinion above together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and our findings from those procedures in order that the Companys members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
These matters were addressed, and our findings are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response The impact of Unprecedented levels of uncertainty We developed a standardized firm-wide approach to uncertainties due the consideration of the uncertainties arising from Brexit All audits assess and challenge the to the UK exiting in planning and performing our audits.
Our procedures reasonableness of estimates, in the European included: particular as described in valuation Union on our of unquoted investments and Our Brexit knowledge: We considered the directors audit recoverability of goodwill below, assessment of Brexit-related sources of risk for the Refer to page and related disclosures and the groups business and financial resources compared with 46 principal appropriateness of the going concern our own understanding of the risks and consider the risks, page basis of preparation of the financial directors plans to take action to mitigate the risks.
All of these depend on Sensitivity analysis: When addressing valuation of statement, assessments of the future economic unquoted investments and recoverability of goodwill page 116 Audit environment and the groups future and other areas that depend on forecasts, we Committee prospects and performance.
compared the directors analysis to our assessment of Report, page the full range of reasonably possible scenarios resulting In addition, we are required to consider 142to 145 from Brexit uncertainty and, where forecast cash flows the other information presented accounting are required to be discounted, consider adjustments to in the Annual Report including the policy and discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.
principal risks disclosure and the page 155 to viability statement and to consider Assessing transparency: As well as assessing individual 159 financial the directors statement that the disclosures as part of our procedures on valuation of disclosures.
annual report and financial statements unquoted investments and recoverability of goodwill taken as a whole is fair, balanced and we considered Brexit related disclosures together, understandable and provides the including those in the strategic report, comparing the information necessary for shareholders overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
to assess the Groups position and Our findings: As reported under valuation of unquoted performance, business model and investments and recoverability of goodwill, we found strategy.
the resulting estimates and related disclosures of valuation of unquoted investments and recoverability Brexit is one of the most significant of goodwill and disclosures in relation to going concern economic events for the UK and at to be balanced.
However, no audit should be expected the date of this report its effects are to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future subject to unprecedented levels of implications for a company and this is particularly the uncertainty of outcomes, with the full case in relation to Brexit.
range of possible effects unknown.
indd 127 12 04 2019 17:10:41 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the Members of IP Group plc The risk Our response Valuation of Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: unquoted 72% 2017: 53% of the Groups total Our sector experience: For a sample of investments, investments assets by value is held in investments selected using a combination of specific item and statistical 995.0 million: where no quoted market price is sampling, assessing and challenging the reasonableness of 2017: 874.8 available.
the valuation approach used, considering these against the million latest IPEV guidelines: Unquoted investments are measured Refer to page 116 at fair value which is estimated by For investments valued using the price of recent Audit Committee the directors based on methods investment as an appropriate basis for the Report, page 142 established in accordance with measurement of the fair value, including ONT, we to 145 accounting International Private Equity and evaluate the independence of the funding round on policy and Venture Capital Valuations Guidelines which this valuation is based e. g. presence of new page 157 to by using measurements of value such external investors and corroborate the price to signed 159 financial as price of recent investment and Share Subscription Agreements: disclosures.
Where the price For those valued based on a funding round aged of recent investment is used, due to greater than 12 months, we corroborate judgements the relatively low number of investors through discussions with the investment team and involved in funding rounds, there is a independent support, such as investee board minutes: risk that recent funding round prices For those valued using alternative valuation methods, on which fair value is based are not such as a discounted cash flows, we corroborate the sufficiently at arms length to ensure underlying information back to independent support, an independent fair value.
Whether it such as signed license agreements: remains appropriate to use the price For those investments initially valued by directors and of the recent funding rounds depends challenged and reviewed by external experts engaged on the specific circumstances of the by directors, we corroborate the observable inputs to investment, the involvement of new the valuations to underlying information: investors, the stability of the external environment and the period since the Challenging the internal investment manager on key last funding round occurred.
There are judgements affecting investee companies valuations, a number of assumptions made by such as events since the last funding round, probability the directors when using alternative of achieving milestone achievements and discount rate valuation methods such as discounted used where applicable.
We compared key underlying cash flows, including the probability of financial data inputs to external sources such as signed achieving milestones and the discount legal documentation, the investee company audited rate used.
We challenged the assumptions included in the valuation based on There is a concentration of risk within the plans of investee companies.
Our work included the unquoted valuation of Oxford consideration of events which occurred subsequent to Nanopore Technologies ONT, of the year end up until the date of the audit report: which the Groups stake is valued at Assessment of experts: Assessing the expertise and 274.1m 2017: 274.1m, comprising experience of the groups external valuation experts 28% of the unquoted portfolio 2017: used in the corroboration of managements valuation: 21% and 24% of total investments 2017: 24%.
Our valuation expertise: We utilised internal valuation specialist to assist us in assessing and challenging the This risk is also applicable to the appropriateness of the valuation methodology.
This parent company, which holds included assessing the information used in the valuation investments where no quoted market model, in the context of our own industry knowledge price is available.
and external data: The effect of these matters is that, Assessing transparency: We consider the as part of our risk assessment, we appropriateness, in accordance with relevant determined that the valuation of accounting standards, of the disclosures related to unquoted investments has a high unquoted investments.
degree of estimation uncertainty, Our findings: We found the resulting valuations in with a potential range of reasonable relation to the unquoted financial investments to be outcomes greater than our materiality balanced with proportionate disclosures of the related for the financial statements as a whole, assumptions and sensitivities.
and possibly many times that amount.
The financial statements note 15 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
indd 128 12 04 2019 17:10:42 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six OUR FINANCIALS The risk Our response Recoverability of Forecast based valuation: Our procedures included: goodwill IP Groups impairment review of Assessing methodology: Assessing the principles and 0.4 million: 2017: goodwill involved the calculation of integrity of the value-in-use discounted cash flow: 203.6 million value-in-use through a discounted Our sector experience and benchmarking cash flow model.
The estimated assumptions: We challenged the inputs to the cash Refer to page 116 recoverable amount is subjective due flow forecasts considered in the value in use model.
We Audit Committee to the inherent uncertainty involved utilised our corporate finance specialists to assist us in Report, page in forecasting and discounting future challenging the key assumptions and methodologies 142 accounting cash flows in the UK university spinapplied by the Group in determination of discount rates, policy and out company market and related with reference to our own independent expectations, page 155 to funds.
In the current year goodwill in which were based on our industry knowledge and 156 financial the group was impaired by 203.2m.
Significant levels of judgement are Assessment of experts: Assessing the expertise and inherent within the assumptions used, experience of the groups external valuation experts including the discount rate, gains used in the assessment of the value in-use model: on future investments, the annual Historical comparisons: Comparing the assumptions investment rate and the weighted to actual cash flows achieved in the year, such as the average holding period of the Groups annual investment rate: investments.
Sensitivity analysis: Considering the sensitivity of the value in use model to the key assumptions through sensitivity analysis that considered the impact of each assumption on the value-in-use: Assessing transparency: Assessing the Groups disclosures of the impairment loss against IAS 36.
Our findings: We found the impairment of goodwill and the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of goodwill was balanced with proportionate disclosures of the related assumptions and sensitivities.
Recoverability Forecast based valuation: Our procedures included: of investment The carrying amount of the Test of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of in subsidiary parent companys investment in 100% of investments with the relevant subsidiaries undertakings subsidiary undertakings are at risk of draft balance sheet to identify whether their net assets, Parent irrecoverability due to the historical being an approximation of their minimum recoverable 398.7million: performance of the underlying amount, were in excess of their carrying amount and 2017: subsidiaries.
assessing whether those subsidiaries have historically 637.3milion been profit-making or whether they have a positive net The carrying amount of the parent asset value and therefore coverage of the debt owed.
Refer to page companys investments in subsidiaries For the investments where the carrying amount 177 company represents 38% 2017:50% of the exceeded the net asset value, comparing the carrying accounting policy companys total assets.
amount of the investment with the consolidated net and page 179 to assets and where necessary assessing the related 180 company impairment.
Assessing transparency: We consider the appropriateness, in accordance with relevant accounting standards, of the disclosures related to parent companys investment in subsidiaries.
Our findings: We found the recoverability of the parent companys investment in subsidiary undertakings to be balanced with proportionate disclosures.
indd 129 12 04 2019 17:10:42 26347 12 April 2019 5:08 pm Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the Members of IP Group plc 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 13.85m 2017: 16.8m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group total assets, of which it represents 1% 2017: 1%.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 12.8m 2017: 12.9m, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets, of which it represents 1% 2017: 1%.
The scope of our work accounted for 100% of the Group revenue 2017:95.7%, 100% of group profit before tax 2017: 86.2% and 100% of the Groups total assets 2017:98.5%.
We reported to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements relating to the statement of financial position exceeding 692,500 2017: 840,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using the materiality level set out above.
Total Assets Group Materiality 1,373.3m 2017: 1,660.5m 13.85m 2017: 16.8m 13.85m Whole financial  2017: 16.
8m 0.69m n Total assets Misstatements reported n Group materiality tothe audit committee 2017:0.84m 130 2018-IP Group-AR.
We have nothing to report on going concern The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or to cease its operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over its ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the Company will continue in operation.
In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the inherent risks to the Companys business model, including the impact of Brexit, and analysed how those risks might affect the Companys financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period.
We evaluated those risks and concluded that they were not significant enough to require us to perform additional audit procedures.
Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 89 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within the viability statement page 55 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and 131 2018-IP Group-AR.
