F Fi ina nanc nci ia al l S St ta at te em me ent nts s Independent Auditors Report to the members of ITV plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of ITV plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of cash flows, company balance sheet, company statement of changes in equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the directors in December 2003 prior to the company becoming the parent company of the now ITV Group on 2 February 2004.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 15 financial years ended 31 December 2018 for the listed ITV Group.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2017, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
118 118 IIT TV V p plc lc A A nnu nna ul a R l R ep eo pr o tr a t a nd n d A Acc c o cu ont un st 2 s 2 01 0 8 1 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of ITV plc The risk Our response Total Advertising Revenue: 1,795 million 2017: 1,781 million Risk vs 2017:, Refer to page 83 Audit and Risk Committee report, page 135 accounting policy and pages 136 to 138 financial disclosures Calculation complexity Our procedures included: The majority of ITVs advertising revenue is subject to regulation Control operation: testing of controls, assisted by our own IT under Ofcoms Contract Rights Renewal system CRR.
CRR works specialists, including those over: segregation of duties, input of by ensuring that the annual share of TV advertising that will be annual deal terms with agencies, input of individual campaigns placed with ITV by each advertising agency can change in relation terms and pricing, comparison of those terms and pricing data to the viewing figures for commercial television that it delivers.
against the related contracts with advertising agencies: link to The CRR system, the pricing of the annual contractual arrangements transmission viewer data: and the system generated calculation with advertising agencies and the details of each advertising of deal debt for each campaign.
campaign, together with the related processes and controls, are Test of detail: challenging the year-end deal debt positions based complex and involve estimation.
on comparison with customers correspondence and agreed terms Our risk relates to the largest component of total advertising of business.
Test of detail: checking that the revenue is recognised post transmission.
Agreeing revenue recognised by matching the In particular, the complexity of the pricing mechanism means it is transmissions to the corresponding spots and by agreeing invoices possible for a difference to arise between the price received by ITV to subsequent cash receipts on sample basis.
for an advertising campaign and the value it delivered, mainly as a Assessing disclosures: we also assessed the adequacy of the result of the actual viewing figures differing from the expected level Group's disclosures in respect of the accounting policies on for the campaign.
Where the Group has over-delivered viewers this is revenue recognition.
referred to as a deal credit, or a deal debt where delivery has fallen short.
Rather than the price paid for that campaign being adjusted at Our results: the end of the campaign, these differences are noted for each agency From the evidence we obtained we found the resulting amount and then taken into account when agreeing either future campaigns of recorded spot advertising to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
A net deal debt position with an agency is recorded in ITVs accounts, as a liability.
Net deal credit positions are not recognised.
Spot advertising as the main component of total advertising is therefore considered a significant risk due to: The number and complexity of contractual agreements with advertising agencies The complexity of the systems and processes of control used to record revenue and The complexity involved in determining any deal debt liability at the period end 119 119 F Fi ina nanc nci ia al l S St ta at te em me ent nts s Independent Auditors Report to the members of ITV plc continued The risk Our response Non-advertising revenue 1,971 million 2017: 1,874 million Risk vs 2017: Refer to page 83 Audit and Risk Committee report, pages 135 to 136 accounting policy and pages 135 to 138 financial disclosures Complex contract accounting Our procedures included: Non-advertising revenue includes revenue from: programme Accounting analysis: we considered the Groups revenue production and the sale of programme rights within the Studios recognition policies against the relevant accounting standards.
segment: transmission supply arrangements and the pay and Test of detail: on a sample basis we assessed revenue contracts interactive revenue within the Broadcast segment.
entered into during the year, and considered whether revenue had Our risk relates to the non-advertising revenue within the Studios been recognised in accordance with the contractual terms in the segment due to contractual nature of revenue recognition.
correct accounting period, given the requirements of the relevant accounting policy.
Recognition of revenue is driven by the specific terms of the related Assessing disclosures: we assessed the adequacy of the contracts and is considered to be a significant risk as the terms of Groups disclosures in respect of the accounting policy on the contracts are varied and can be complex, with the result that revenue recognition.
accounting for the revenue generated in any given period can require judgement.
Specifically judgement has been involved with regards to Our findings: determining separate performance obligations and the timing of the From the evidence we obtained we found the resulting amount revenue recognition of each.
Due to the contractual nature of these of recorded non advertising revenue to be acceptable revenue streams, the focus of our work is on the risks associated with 2017: acceptable.
Gross defined benefit pension scheme obligations 3,719 million 2017: 3,987 million Risk vs 2017: Refer to page 85 Audit and Risk Committee report, pages 163 to 164 accounting policy and pages 164 to 171 financial disclosures Subjective valuation Our procedures included: Significant estimates are made in determining the key assumptions Benchmarking assumptions: challenging the key financial used in valuing the Group's post-retirement defined benefit assumptions applied in determining the Group's gross pension obligations.
When making these assumptions the directors take obligations, being the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality life independent actuarial advice relating to their appropriateness.
expectancy, with the support of our own actuarial specialists.
This The valuation of the gross defined benefit obligations is considered included a comparison of these key assumptions against externally a significant risk given the quantum of the gross pension obligation derived data.
and that a small change in assumptions can have a material financial Assessing disclosures: considering the adequacy of the Groups impact on the Group.
disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the gross defined benefit obligations to the assumptions.
Our findings: From the evidence we obtained we found the resulting valuation of the gross pension obligations to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Recoverability of parent companys investment in subsidiaries 2,286 million 2017: 2,191 million Risk vs 2017: Refer to page 191 accounting policy and page 193 financial disclosures Low risk, high value Our procedures included: The carrying amount of the parent companys investments in Test of detail: comparing the carrying amount of 100% of the subsidiaries represents 35% 2017: 34% of the companys total assets.
investments balance 2017: 100% with the relevant subsidiaries Their recoverability is not at a high risk of significant misstatement or draft balance sheet to identify whether their net assets, being an subject to significant judgement.
However, due to their materiality in approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were in the context of the parent company financial statements, this is excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether those considered to be the area that had the greatest effect on our overall subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.
Our results: We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
1 12 20 0 IIT TV V p plc lc A A nnu nna ul a R l R ep eo pr o tr a t a nd n d A Acc c o cu ont un st 2 s 2 01 0 8 1 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of ITV plc 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 28 million 2017: 28.4 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax normalised to exclude pension exceptional items disclosed in note 2.2, of 563 million, of which materiality represents 4.9% 2017: 5% of group profit before tax normalised to exclude certain exceptional items, of 568 million.
The group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised group profit before tax.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set as 27 million 2017: 27 million determined with reference to the benchmark of the companys total assets, of which it represents 0.4% 2017: 0.4%.
We agreed to report to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 1.4 million 2017: 1.4 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scoping and coverage Revenue profit before tax Total assets Full scope audit 82% Full scope audit 94% Group audited 89% specified risk-based specified risk-based specified risk-based audit procedures 6% audit procedures 1% audit procedures 2% Out of scope 12% Out of scope 5% Out of scope 9% The Groups principal operations are in the United Kingdom.
The Group audit team performed the audit of the core UK operations comprising Broadcast and Online, the UK Studios, Global Entertainment and the central functions as if they were a single aggregated set of financial information using materiality of 25 million 2017: 25 million.
Talpa Media B. V. a significant component of the Group in the Netherlands was subject to an audit for Group reporting purposes.
The Group audit team instructed the component auditor as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks described above and the determination of the information to be reported back.
Specified audit procedures were performed by other component auditors, as instructed by the Group audit team, on three entities in the US included in our scope based on the relative size of their operations.
The Group audit team set the materiality of 5 million 2017: 5 million for both the audit of the component and the specified audit procedures.
The Group audit team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
The Group audit team held several telephone conference meetings with the component audit teams to assess the audit risk and strategy.
The Group audit team also visited the component in the Netherlands and in the US.
At these visits and in these meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
Together the above audit and these specified audit procedures covered 88% 2017: 88% of Group revenue: 95% 2017: 95% of Group profit before taxation: and 91% 2016: 92% of total Group assets.
We have nothing to report on going concern The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditor's report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue in operation.
In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Companys financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period.
The risks that we considered most likely to adversely affect the Groups and Companys available financial resources over this period were: The Broadcast division experiencing a significant and sharp decline in advertising revenues due to broader economic downturn A number of key program brands within the Studios division not being recommissioned 121 121 F Fi ina nanc nci ia al l S St ta at te em me ent nts s Independent Auditors Report to the members of ITV plc continued As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt on the Groups and the Company's ability to continue as a going concern, we considered sensitivities over the level of available financial resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking account of reasonably possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these risks individually and collectively and evaluated the achievability of the actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position should the risks materialise.
We also considered less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as the impact of Brexit and the erosion of customer or supplier confidence, which could result in a rapid reduction of available financial resources.
Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in Section 1 on page 131 of the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 116 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic Report and Directors Report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Directors Remuneration Report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 62 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity the risks and uncertainties on pages 54 to 61 describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated and the directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
1 12 22 2 IIT TV V p plc lc A A nnu nna ul a R l R ep eo pr o tr a t a nd n d A Acc c o cu ont un st 2 s 2 01 0 8 1 8 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Independent Auditors Report to the members of ITV plc Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit We have nothing to report in these respects.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 116, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, from inspection of the groups regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
Firstly, the group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation, taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Secondly, the group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the groups licence to operate.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
123 123 F Fi ina nanc nci ia al l S St ta at te em me ent nts s Independent Auditors Report to the members of ITV plc continued Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Paul Sawdon Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 27 February 2019 1 124 24 IIT TV V p plc lc A A nnu nna ul a R l R ep eo pr o tr a t a nd n d A Acc c o cu ont un st 2 s 2 01 0 8 1 8
