STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IWG PLC decline in certain markets or where revenue and costs are subject OUR OPINION IS UNMODIFIED to significant fluctuations.
The recoverability of goodwill is spread We have audited the Group financial statements of IWG plc for the across multiple geographies and economies as highlighted in year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Group income note 11, and is dependent on individual businesses acquired statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the achieving or sustaining sufficient profitability in the future.
Group balance sheet, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group cash flow statement and the related accounting policies and We focus on this area due to the inherent uncertainty involved in notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, particularly in their preparation is Jersey Law and International Financial projected revenue growth, which forms the basis of the assessment Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
In our opinion: How the matter was addressed in our audit the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, Our audit procedures in this area included, among others, assessing liabilities and financial position of the Group as at 31 December the Groups impairment model for each group of CGUs and 2018 and of its profit for the year then ended: challenging the key assumptions used by the Group in the model.
Key assumptions include revenue growth, occupancy rates, the financial statements have been properly prepared in discount rates and terminal values.
We considered the historical accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards accuracy of the Groups forecasts.
We obtained and documented IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and our understanding of the impairment testing process and the the financial statements have been properly prepared in design and implementation of the relevant controls therein.
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey We used valuation specialists to assist us in evaluating the Law 1991. judgements and methodologies used by the Group, in particular Basis for opinion those relating to the discount rate used to determine the present We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards value of the cash flow projections.
Our responsibilities under those standards are We compared the Groups assumptions, where possible, to further described in the Auditors Responsibilities section of our externally derived data and performed our own assessment in report.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the relation to key model inputs.
We checked the mathematical ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial accuracy of the model.
We examined the sensitivity analysis statements in Jersey, together with the International Ethics performed by Group management and performed our own Standards Board for Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional sensitivity analysis in relation to the key assumptions.
We also Accountants IESBA Code and we have fulfilled our other ethical compared the sum of projected discounted cash flows to the responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
market capitalisation of the Group to assess whether the projected We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient cash flows appear reasonable.
We also assessed whether the and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
disclosures as set out in note 11 were appropriate and in compliance with IAS 36.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS: OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS The Groups impairment model identified impairments of goodwill OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT amounting to 1.0 million during the year ended 31 December 2018.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional As a result of our work, we found that the judgements applied by judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial management in arriving at this conclusion were supported by statements and include the most significant assessed risks of reasonable assumptions.
We found the disclosures to be adequate.
material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by Taxation current tax liabilities of 31.0 million us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall 2017: 21.6 million and deferred tax assets of audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
30.6 million 2017: 23.0 million Refer to page 60 Report of the Audit Committee, page 95 These matters were addressed, and our results are based on accounting policy and note 8 to the Group Financial Statements.
procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and The key audit matter in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world.
to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on As a result, the tax charge on profits is determined according to a these matters.
variety of complex tax laws and regulations.
The Group encounters challenges by tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the In arriving at our audit opinion above, the key audit matters, in normal course of business and recognises liabilities for anticipated decreasing order of significance, were as follows: tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will Goodwill and intangible assets 721.7 million be due.
The calculation of these liabilities is underpinned by 2017: 712.1 million judgemental assumptions as the ultimate tax determination is Refer to page 60 Report of the Audit Committee, page 93 uncertain.
The related deferred tax assets and liabilities require accounting policy and notes 11 and 12 to the Group Financial judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised with Statements.
consideration to the timing and level of future taxable income.
The key audit matter Separately, the Group has incurred historic trading losses in certain There is a risk that the carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill jurisdictions and acquisitions made may include complex tax and intangible assets will be more than the estimated recoverable aspects.
As a consequence, the Groups current and deferred tax amount, if future cash flows are not sufficient to recover the balances are sensitive to assumptions used in determining the Groups investment.
This could occur if forecasted cash flows appropriate liabilities and assets.
8 1 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 81 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IWG PLC CONTINUED performed for certain other components.
These audits covered How the matter was addressed in our audit 80% 2017: 80% of total Group revenue, 82% 2017: 80% Our approach to the audit of taxation is underpinned by the of Group total assets and 87% 2017: 83% of Group profit inclusion of foreign and domestic KPMG Taxation Specialists in the before taxation.
These specialists evaluated and challenged the key assumptions and methodologies used by the Group and its The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the taxation advisors in calculating the taxation provisions for the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed period.
Particular focus is placed on key assumptions relating to above and the information to be reported back.
Planning meetings provisions for uncertain tax positions and the recognition and were held with component auditors in order to assess the key audit recoverability of deferred tax assets.
We obtained and documented risks, audit strategy and work to be undertaken.
The Group audit our understanding of the taxation process and the design and team approved the materiality of each of the components, which implementation of the relevant controls therein.
ranged from 3m to 8m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
We specifically considered the taxation risks arising from the Groups operations when assessing the accounting for taxation Detailed audit instructions were sent to the auditors in all of these related balances.
We assessed the recoverability of deferred identified locations.
These instructions covered the significant audit tax assets, which involved assessing the assumptions in relation areas to be covered by these audits which included the relevant to the utilisation of losses carried forward against projected risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the taxable profits.
We also considered whether the recognition information required to be reported to the Group audit team.
of additional deferred tax assets would be appropriate in Senior members of the Group audit team, including the lead accordance with IAS 12. engagement partner, attended each component audit closing meeting via telephone conferencing facilities, at which the results We assessed the presentation and disclosure in accordance with of component audits were discussed with divisional and Group IAS 1 and IAS 12 in respect of taxation related balances and management.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the considered whether the Groups disclosures reflected the risks Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further inherent in the accounting for the taxation balances.
work required by the Group audit team was then performed by We found that the Groups estimates of the amounts recognised as the component auditor.
The Group audit team interacted with the tax liabilities and deferred tax assets to be appropriate and that the component teams where appropriate during various stages of disclosures provide an adequate description of the assumptions the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible and estimates made by the Group.
for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT financial statements.
The materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole was set at 10 million 2017: 10 million, which is 0.4% WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON GOING 2017: 0.4% of total revenue and 7.2% 2017: 6.7% of profit CONCERN before tax from continuing operations.
We have determined, in our We are required to report to you if: professional judgement, that these benchmarks are two of the we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation principal benchmarks within the financial statements relevant to to the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements members of the Company in assessing financial performance.
on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no For certain account balances including goodwill, intangible assets, material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the bank loans, share-based payments, related party transactions and Group use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months from taxation, we applied materiality of 7.5 million, or 5.4% 2017: the date of approval of the financial statements : or 5.0% of pre-tax profit, as we believe a misstatement of amounts if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on less than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could page 55 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
be reasonably expected to influence a members assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We agreed with the Audit Committee to report corrected and OTHER INFORMATION uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a The Directors are responsible for the other information presented value in excess of 0.5 million 2017: 0.5 million.
We also agreed in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
The to report other audit misstatements below that threshold that we other information comprises the information included in the Annual believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Report other than the financial statements.
The financial statements The structure of the Groups finance function is such that certain and our auditors report thereon do not comprise part of the other transactions and balances are accounted for by central Group information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not finance teams, with the remainder accounted for in the operating cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express units.
We performed comprehensive audit procedures, including an audit opinion or any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
those in relation to the significant risks above, on those Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, transactions and balances accounted for at Group and operating consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, unit level.
In determining those components in the Group to which the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with we perform audit procedures, we considered the relevant size and the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on risk profile of the components.
that work we have not identified material misstatements in the In relation to the Groups operating units, audits for Group reporting other information.
purposes were performed at identified key reporting components, augmented by risk focused audit procedures which were 8 2 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 82 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial Directors responsibilities statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 80, the attention to in relation to: Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair the principal risks disclosures describing these risks and view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: the preparation of financial statements that are free from material the Directors confirmation within the viability statement that misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Groups they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, facing the Group, including those that would threaten its matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: and of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or to the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they Auditors responsibilities have done so and why they considered that period to be Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a the financial statements as a whole are free from material reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a Corporate governance disclosures material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, We are required to report to you if: individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to we have identified material inconsistencies between the influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit financial statements.
and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Further details relating to our work as auditor is set out in the Scope Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for of Responsibilities Statement contained in the appendix to this report, which is to be read as an integral part of our report.
shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or THE PURPOSE OF OUR AUDIT AND TO WHOM WE the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the OWE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters Our report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 Companys members those matters we are required to state to provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code specified them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest by the Listing Rules for our review.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Group and the Groups members as a We have nothing to report in these respects.
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE OTHER have formed.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO CLIONA MULLEN, for and on behalf of REPORT BY EXCEPTION Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991, we are required to report KPMG to you if, in our opinion: Chartered Accountants, Statutory Audit Firm Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 1 Stokes Place, St Stephens Green, Dublin 2, Ireland company: 6 March 2019 Returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: The financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
8 3 83 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IWG PLC CONTINUED We also provide those charged with governance with a APPENDIX TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS statement that we have complied with relevant ethical REPORT requirements regarding independence, and communicate with Further information regarding the scope of our them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be responsibilities as auditor thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise related safeguards.
professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism From the matters communicated with those charged with throughout the audit.
We also: governance, we determine those matters that were of most Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
We perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain describe these matters in our auditors report unless law or audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, basis for our opinion.
The risk of not detecting a material in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting should not be communicated in our report because the adverse from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control.
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management.
Conclude on the appropriateness of managements use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit.
We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
8 4 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 84 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
