Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Financial Statements J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 89 Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and In our opinion: viability statement J Sainsbury plcs consolidated financial statements and parent company We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: at 10 March 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on page 30 that describe the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Directors confirmation set out on page 62 in the Annual Report that the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, Practice: and future performance, solvency or liquidity: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the the Directors statement set out on page 35 in the Annual Report about requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of We have audited J Sainsbury plcs financial statements for the 52 weeks at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements ended 10 March 2018 which comprise: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required Group Parent company under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is Consolidated income statement Balance sheet materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Consolidated statement of Statement of changes in equity the Directors explanation set out on page 35 in the Annual Report as comprehensive income to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, Consolidated balance sheet Related notes 1 to 11 to the financial and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation statements that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities Consolidated cash flow statement as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any Consolidated statement of changes related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications in equity or assumptions.
Related notes 1 to 38 to the financial statements including a summary of significant accounting policies Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation Supplier arrangements of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Aspects of revenue recognition Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Financial Services customer receivables impairment The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Nectar acquisition Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure IT environment Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Audit scope Basis for opinion We performed a full scope audit of the complete financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on information of the following components: J Sainsbury plc, Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under Sainsburys Supermarkets, Argos and Sainsburys Bank.
We those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for performed audit procedures on specific balances including for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are Argos Financial Services, Nectar, the property companies, material independent of the Group and parent company in accordance with the ethical joint ventures and the insurance company due to the size and risk requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the of certain individual balances within these components.
UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest The components where we performed full or specific audit entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance procedures accounted for 92 per cent of Profit before tax with these requirements.
before one off items, 99 per cent of Revenue and 96 per cent of Total assets.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Materiality Overall Group materiality is 30.8 million which represents Use of our report five per cent of profit before tax and before non-recurring This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Argos integration costs, Sainsburys Bank transition costs and accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
90 Financial Statements J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc continued Key audit matters Risk Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, Aspects of revenue recognition were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 61 : Accounting policies current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material page 109 : and note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 106 misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters Our assessment is that the vast majority of the Groups revenue transactions included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, are non-complex, with no judgement applied over the amount recorded.
the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the We focused our work on the manual adjustments that are made to revenue.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, Our procedures were designed to address the risk of manipulation of and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
accounting records and the ability to override controls.
Changes from the prior year Our response to the risk The Group acquired three UK entities and the remaining share of the We obtained a detailed understanding of these manual adjustments.
Insight 2 Communication LLP joint venture from Aimia Inc. referred to Due to the manual nature of these adjustments, we performed as the Nectar acquisition.
We have reflected this in our risk assessment, substantive audit procedures.
the results of which are below.
We have designated the significant Nectar We used our computer-aided analytics tools to identify those revenue balances as specific scope.
We have included the Nectar acquisition as a journals for which the corresponding entry was not cash.
These entries key audit matter.
include Nectar points, coupons, vouchers and commission arrangements.
In the prior year because of the acquisition of HRG in that year we included We obtained corroborating evidence for such corresponding entries.
HRG acquisition purchase price allocation as a key audit matter.
We have For the Nectar points adjustment we obtained evidence from the removed this risk for this year.
For third party coupons and vouchers we obtained evidence of collection and settlement.
Risk Using data extracted from the accounting system, we tested the Supplier arrangements appropriateness of journal entries impacting revenue, as well as other Refer to Accounting policies page 103 : and note 2 of the Consolidated adjustments made in the preparation of the financial statements.
We Financial Statements page 103 considered unusual journals such as those posted outside of expected hours, or by unexpected individuals and, for large or unusual amounts.
The Group receives material discounts from suppliers, referred to as supplier arrangements.
The accounting for some of these supplier arrangements is Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee complex since management applies judgement, processing is either manual Adjustments to revenue have been appropriately recognised.
or more complex and the quantum of agreements is high.
We focused our audit procedures on these complex supplier arrangements.
Risk Financial Services customer receivables impairment Complex supplier arrangements recognised in the income statement for the Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 61 : Accounting policies note 15b: financial year are 450 million 2016 17: 343 million.
and note 15c of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 122 Our response to the risk Financial Services customer receivables relate to Sainsburys Bank credit We walked through the controls in place within the supplier arrangements cards, loans and mortgages: and Argos store cards.
We were able to take a controls-reliance approach over certain at year end are 5,692 million 2016 17: 4,602 million.
The provision for aspects of the process, testing the key controls, although there are areas impairment is 132 million 2016 17: 89 million.
where we cannot as the process for recording deals is manual.
We selected a sample of suppliers to whom we sent confirmations across The risk of collectability of Financial Services customer receivables, through all deal types to confirm key deal input terms.
Where we did not receive either credit cards, loans, mortgages or Argos store cards is significant.
a response from the supplier, we performed alternative procedures, There is judgement in the assumptions applied to calculate the loan provisions including obtaining evidence of initiation and where possible settlement against outstanding balances.
We tested the existence and valuation of balance sheet amounts Our response to the risk recognised in accounts receivable and as a contra-asset in accounts The loan impairment methodology was reviewed, to confirm it was payable by reviewing post-period end settlement.
We also performed consistent with both the IFRS requirements and that previously applied.
a look-back analysis of prior period balance sheet amounts to check The completeness and accuracy of the data from underlying systems that these amounts were appropriately recovered.
that were used in the impairment models were tested.
We tested the settlement of a sample of supplier arrangements Key assumptions including the probability of default and the size of recognised in the income statement, which included settlement in cash the loss if default occurred were assessed against internal and external or by off-set to accounts payable.
The key assumptions within the models were compared Using data extracted from the accounting system, we tested the to knowledge of assumptions used and also with internal historical appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments to supplier trends, concluding that, based on the evidence obtained, managements arrangements to corroborating evidence.
We tested deals recorded post period end and obtained the supplier Changes to the modelling assumptions were assessed to confirm these agreement to validate that the deal was correctly recorded post were appropriate and in line with accounting standards.
The accuracy of prior year impairment reserves was considered to assess We read managements disclosure in respect of supplier arrangements the quality of managements estimation process.
amounts recorded in the income statement and balance sheet to confirm Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee completeness and accuracy of amounts disclosed.
The provision for impairment of Financial Services receivables due from Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee customers is appropriately recognised.
Supplier arrangement amounts are appropriately recognised in the income statement and balance sheet and the disclosure in the financial statements is appropriate.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Financial Statements J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 91 Risk An overview of the scope of our audit Nectar acquisition Tailoring the scope Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 61 : Accounting policies Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation page 109 : and note 2e of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 103 of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the The Group acquired Nectar during the year.
The provisional business consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the combination fair values are outlined in note 31 to the financial statements.
organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit We focused our audit effort on the IFRIC 13 accounting treatment for the results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
loyalty points and the acquisition accounting of the acquired companies, with a particular focus on the valuation of the Nectar points liability, In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial including the breakage assumption.
statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts of the components of the Group in the Group financial Our response to the risk statements, we selected the head office company J Sainsbury plc, We walked through the controls in place within the purchase price Sainsburys Supermarkets, Argos and Sainsburys Bank components to accounting process including specifically around the fair value perform full scope procedures.
These represent the principal business of acquired assets and liabilities and the estimates applied in the units within the Group based on their size and risk characteristics.
For other entities including Argos Financial Services, Nectar, the property We understood managements processes and controls surrounding companies, material joint ventures and insurance components we the Nectar points liability and verified the inputs to the calculation.
performed audit procedures on specific accounts which we considered We corroborated managements estimate on the breakage assumption had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in and understood how management arrived at a reasonable range.
the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or We understood the underlying accounting model IFRIC 13, and verified their risk profile.
its application to the Nectar points accounting.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the The Nectar acquisition has been appropriately recognised.
coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
Risk Of the remaining balances, none are individually greater than five per cent of the Groups profit before tax excluding one off items.
For these accounts, The IT environment we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of The IT systems across the Group are complex and there are varying levels consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations, to respond to any of integration between them.
The systems are vital to the ongoing operations potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
of the business and to the integrity of the financial reporting process.
Involvement with component teams For Sainsburys Bank the key system relating to the customer loan receivable In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the impairment as described above, is provided by an external party.
type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by Our response to the risk us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from We held discussions with management to understand the IT environment other EY network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the full scope and walked through the key financial processes to understand where components, audit procedures were performed on the head office company, IT systems were integral to the Groups controls over financial reporting.
J Sainsbury plc, Sainsburys and Argos trading entities and consolidation From this we identified which IT systems to include in the scope for our of the Group by the primary team.
The work at the specific scope locations detailed IT testing.
was performed by EY components in Edinburgh, the Isle of Man and the primary team.
We assessed the IT general controls environment for the key systems impacting the accurate recording of transactions and the presentation For the Sainsburys Bank full scope component this was our first year as of the financial statements.
During the current periods audit cycle, the Senior Statutory Auditor We designed our IT audit procedures to assess the IT environment, visited Sainsburys Bank and held discussions with management.
The team including an assessment of controls over changes made to the system discussed the audit approach with the component team and significant and controls over appropriate access to the systems.
issues arising from their work, reviewing key audit working papers on risk Where we found that adequate IT general controls were not in place, areas.
The closing discussion was attended by the primary team.
This, we performed additional substantive testing to mitigate the risk of together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave material misstatement.
us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
For Sainsburys Bank we received a report from the auditors on the general control environment of the outsourced systems and followed up on matters arising, performing further procedures as necessary.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee We have not identified any misstatements in the financial statements due to the limitations of the IT environment.
92 Financial Statements J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc continued Our application of materiality Other information We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, The other information comprises the information included in the Annual in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in Report as set out on pages 1 to 86 other than the financial statements forming our audit opinion.
and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility We determined materiality for the Group to be 30.8 million, which is is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other five per cent of profit before tax excluding the items described below.
information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our We believe that this materiality basis provides us with the best assessment knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially of the requirements of the users of the financial statements.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material consistent with the approach taken in the prior period.
misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the Starting basis Profit before tax 409m other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to Adjustments Argos related non-underlying costs 85m report that fact.
Sainsburys Bank transition costs 38m We have nothing to report in this regard.
Restructuring costs 85m Total 208m In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility Profit before tax and adjustments 617m to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where Materiality Materiality of 30.8 million five per cent of profit before we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: tax and after making the adjustments noted above.
Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 88 the statement We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be 155 million given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial 2016 17: 145 million, which is two per cent 2016 17: two per cent of net assets.
Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and The materiality of the parent company is greater than the Group because provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups the Parent Company is a holding Company with significant net assets.
performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Performance materiality Audit Committee reporting set out on page 56 the section describing The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance exceeds materiality.
Code set out on page 47 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly materiality was approximately 75 per cent 2016 17: 75 per cent of our disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate planning materiality, namely 23 million 2016 17: 25 million.
We have set Governance Code.
performance materiality at this percentage due to our assessment that the risk of material misstatement is not high.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit Companies Act 2006 coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report of performance materiality allocated to components was 4 million to for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 17 million 2016 17: 5 million to 19 million.
is consistent with the financial statements: and Reporting threshold the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1.5 million 2016 17: 1.7 million, which is set at five per cent of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Financial Statements J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 93 We understood how J Sainsbury plc is complying with those frameworks Matters on which we are required to report by observing the oversight of those charged with governance, the culture by exception of honesty and ethical behaviour and a strong emphasis placed on fraud In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the prevention, which may reduce opportunities for fraud to take place, and parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, fraud deterrence, which could persuade individuals not to commit fraud we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or because of the likelihood of detection and punishment.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to misstatement, including how fraud might occur by making an assessment which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: of the key fraud risks to the Group and the manner in which such risks may adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, manifest themselves in practice, based on our previous knowledge of the or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Group as well as an assessment of the current business environment.
not visited by us: or Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Where the risk was Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each accounting records and returns: or identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial made: or statements were free of fraud or error.
We evaluated the design and we have not received all the information and explanations we require operational effectiveness of controls put in place to address the risks for our audit.
identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their influence on efforts made by Responsibilities of Directors management to manage earnings.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 88, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to https: www.
This description forms enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material part of our auditors report.
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Other matters we are required to address In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee we were assessing the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going appointed by the Company at its Annual General Meeting on 8 July 2015. concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and We have been the statutory auditor since that date.
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
provided to the Group or the parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial The audit opinion is consistent with the Financial Statements.
statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Nigel Jones Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that Senior statutory auditor an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error Statutory Auditor and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could London reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken 1 May 2018 on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable 1 T he maintenance and integrity of the J Sainsbury plc website is the responsibility of the of detecting irregularities, including fraud Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant are: those that relate to the form and content of the financial statements, such as the Group accounting policy, International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS, the UK Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate Governance Code: those that relate to the payment of employees: and industry related such as compliance with the requirements of the Grocery Supply Code of Practice.
