J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Independent auditors report 1 Our opinion is unmodi ed We have audited the financial statements of James Fisher and Sons plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 31.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31December 2018 and of the Groups pro t for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a suf cient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the Directors on 30 June 2008.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 11 financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We have ful lled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
2 Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most signi cance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most signi cant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identi ed by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The impact of uncertainties due to UK exiting the European Union on our audit Refer to page 20 Financial review, page 11 4 accounting policy and page 89 financial disclosures The risk: Unprecedented levels of uncertainty All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness of estimates, in particular as described in revenue recognition and valuation of intangible assets, below, and related disclosures and the appropriateness of the going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements see below.
All of these depend on assessments of the future economic environment and the Groups future prospects and performance.
In addition, we are required to consider the other information presented in the Annual Report including the principal risks disclosure and the viability statement and to consider the Directors statement that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Brexit is one of the most signi cant economic events for the UK and at the date of this report its effects are subject to unprecedented levels of uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range of possible effects unknown.
70 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Our response: We developed a standardised rm-wide approach to the consideration of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning and performing our audits.
Our Brexit knowledge We considered the Directors assessment of Brexit-related sources of risk for the Groups business and financial resources compared with our own understanding of the risks.
We considered the Directors plans to take action to mitigate the risks.
Sensitivity analysis When addressing valuation of intangible assets and other areas that depend on forecasts, we compared the Directors analysis to our assessment of the full range of reasonably possible scenarios resulting from Brexit uncertainty and, where forecasts cash ows are required to be discounted, considered adjustments to discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.
Assessing transparency As well as assessing individual disclosures as part of our procedures on revenue recognition and valuation of intangible assets we considered all of the Brexit related disclosures together, including those in the Strategic report, comparing the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
Our results: We found the resulting estimates and related disclosures of Brexit and disclosures in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
Revenue recognition and longterm contracts 561.5m 2017 restated: 499.3m, Contract assets 46.9m 2017: 87.8m and Contract Liabilities 5.2m 2017:5.0m Risk vs 2017: Refer to page 46 Audit Committee report, page 11 6-118 accounting policy and page 85 financial disclosures The risk: Subjective estimates The contractual arrangements that underpin the measurement and recognition of revenue by the Group can be complex, with signi cant subjective estimates involved in the assessment of current and future financial performance.
In particular, where services rendered are provided through long-term contracts and are not completed at the balance sheet date and output measures cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction measured by reference to an input measure, such as physical progress, attributable man hours and costs incurred measured against the expected outcome.
The stage of completion is estimated by the Group and includes certain judgements as contracts may run over a number of accounting periods and include forecasts in relation to future costs including labour and materials which are not yet known.
In addition variations and claims can lead to uncertainty over the total contract price.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that revenue recognition in relation to longterm contracts have a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole, and possibly many times that amount.
Our response: Our audit procedures included: 1.
Methodology choice: assessing whether the revenue recognition methodology applied was consistent with accounting standards.
Test of details: selecting the contracts for substantive audit procedures based on qualitative factors, such as commercial complexity and life of contract, and quantitative factors, such as financial signi cance and pro tability that we considered to be indicative of risk.
Input assessment: agreeing, for the sample above, observable inputs used in the calculations of costs incurred, such as direct costs, labour charges and document delivery records to source data, including customer acceptance acts and countersigned agreements, including testing the allocation of costs incurred to contracts.
Historical comparisons: assessing the reliability of the Groups forecasts of costs to complete by considering historical accuracy of their forecasts on completed contracts.
Enquiries: discussions with operational management for the sample above regarding their expectations for contracts, and comparing these to the forecasts used for the accounting.
Our business understanding: assessing, for the sample above, whether the subjective estimates made by the Group over the stage of completion and estimates over cost to complete, including speci c output measures and costs incurred, are consistent with our understanding of contract activities and performance.
This involved comparing assumptions to a variety of information as appropriate, including correspondence with customers, historical outcomes and operational management views.
For contracts in the sample above that have signi cant estimation in the total contract price due to variations and claims, assessing the assumptions made by the Directors in light of the Groups historical experience on similar contracts and correspondence with customers.
Assessing transparency: assessing the appropriateness of the Groups disclosures in respect of revenue from construction contracts.
71 STRA GOVERNANCE TEGIC REPORT J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Independent auditor's report continued Our results: We found revenue recognition from construction contracts acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Valuation of intangible assets, 197.5m 2017: 199.2m and Parent Company investment in subsidiaries, 400.1m 2017: 409.2m 2017: Risk vs 2017: Refer to page 47 Audit Committee report, page 11 4 accounting policy and page 89 financial disclosures The risk: Forecast based valuation Goodwill and intangible assets in the Group and Parent Company investment in subsidiaries are the most quantitatively signi cant items on the Group and Parent Company balance sheet respectively, and their recoverability is subjective due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash ows.
This is considered to be one of the areas that had the greatest effect on our overall Group and Parent Company audits due to their materiality in the context of the Group and Parent Company financial statements and due to the inherent signi cant judgements involved in the impairment test.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment for audit planning purposes, we determined that the recoverable amount of intangibles had a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
In conducting our final audit work, we reassessed the degree of estimation uncertainty in respect of the carrying amount of intangible assets to be less than that materiality.
The financial statements note 12 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
Historical comparisons: assessing the reasonableness of the budgets by considering the historical accuracy of previous forecasts.
Our sector experience: assessing whether assumptions used, in particular those relating to forecast revenue growth, pro t margins and maintenance capital expenditure, re ect our knowledge of the business and industry, including known or probable changes in the business environment.
Benchmarking assump tions: challenging the key inputs used in the impairment test, in particular discount rates, by comparing them to externally derived data, including available sources for comparable companies.
Sensitivity analysis: performing breakeven analysis on the key assumptions noted above.
O ur sector experience: challenging the Groups assessment of the recoverability of capitalised development costs by assessing the technical feasibility and future pro tability of the related assets, including comparing the Groups estimates to our understanding of project progress and performance to date.
Where the headroom is considered lower, we have obtained the discounted cash ow workings from the Group and challenged the inputs within these.
A ssessing transparency: assessing whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions re ected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Our results: We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of Group intangible assets and Parent Company investments in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
Group operations in overseas jurisdictions and where uncertain legislation can exist, Risk vs 2017: Refer to page 47 Audit Committee report, page 11 7 accounting policies and page 1 0 9 financial disclosures.
The risk: breach of laws and regulations resulting in omitted exposures.
The Group is a multinational and has operations in a number of less developed markets, including countries in South America, South East Asia and Africa.
Operating in these territories presents increased operational and financial risks both due to the need to comply with potentially uncertain regulatory and legislative environments, including legislation relating to tax and where local regulations in those markets are different from laws and regulations that govern the Group as a whole.
Breaches of compliance or inappropriate assumptions over provisioning for the uncertain legislation could have a signi cant effect on the results and financial position of the Group and is one of the judgemental areas our audit is focused on.
Inspection and enquir y: considering the Groups exposure to potential breaches of legislation by making appropriate enquiry of the Group in relation to compliance with laws and regulations and the existence and status of any known or suspected signi cant legal matters.
We inspected reports returned by overseas locations to identify actual and potential non-compliance and heightened risks to compliance with laws and regulations, both those speci c to the Groups business and those relating to the conduct of the business generally.
Where signi cant or potential matters were identi ed we made enquiries of the Groups legal counsel and legal representative.
T est of detail: for any matters or potential matters identi ed review of underlying correspondence and documentation, including formal con rmations and discussion with external lawyers, where relevant.
72 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 3.
Sector experience: where we considered heightened risks were present, using our experience of procedures adopted by multinational groups to provide assurance that their global components comply with laws and regulations, we undertook additional procedures in relation to the Groups oversight of control of such arrangements which included inspecting the biannual self-reporting by local management and testing a sample of reported 3rd party relationships against Group policy.
We inspected underlying agreements as considered necessary.
Assessing transparency: assessing the appropriateness of the Groups disclosures in respect of provisions, and contingencies disclosed.
Our results: We considered the contingency disclosures made to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 2.5m 2017: 2.2m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group pro t before tax of 55.9m 2017 restated: 47.3m, of which it represents 4.5% 2017: 4.7%.
The materiality for the Parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 0.7m 2017: 0.7m, determined with reference to a benchmark of gross assets of 426.2m 2017: 436m, of which it represents 0.2% 2017: 0.2%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identi ed misstatements exceeding 0.1m 2017: 0.1m, in addition to other identi ed misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 122 2017: 188 reporting components, we subjected 19 2017: 34 to full scope audits for Group purposes.
The number of reporting components appears to have reduced signi cantly in the period, however this is due to some larger divisions reporting as a sub consolidated unit.
We conducted reviews of financial information including enquiry at a further 5 2017: 12 non-signi cant components to obtain further coverage.
These components were not individually nancially signi cant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: Number of Group pro t components Group revenue before tax Group total assets Audits for Group reporting purposes 19 2017: 36 83% 2017: 86% 77% 2017: 77% 74% 2017: 84% Reviews of financial information 5 2017: 12 8% 2017: 4% 3% 2017: 9% 6% 2017: 6% including enquiry Total 24 2017: 48 91% 2017: 90% 80% 2017: 86% 80% 2017: 90% The remaining 9% of total Group revenue, 20% of Group pro t before tax and 20% of total Group assets is represented by 103 reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 10% of any of total Group revenue, Group pro t before tax or total Group assets.
For these residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no signi cant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the signi cant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.1m to 1.5m 2017: 0.1m to 1.0m, having regard to the mix of size and risk pro le of the Group across the components.
The work on 17 2017: 15 of the 24 2017: 48 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the Parent Company, was performed by the Group audit team.
Telephone conferences were held with these component auditors at the locations which were not audited directly by the Group audit team.
At these conferences, the findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 We have nothing to report on going concern The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast signi cant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were 73 GOVERNANCE J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Independent auditor's report continued made, the absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue in operation.
In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the inherent risks to the Companys business model, including the impact of a disorderly Brexit and analysed how those risks might affect the Companys financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period.
We evaluated those risks and concluded that they were not signi cant enough to require us to perform additional audit procedures.
Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast signi cant doubt over the Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 68 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify any going concern as a key audit matter.
5 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identi ed material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and Directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identi ed material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors con rmation within the viability statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the principal risks and uncertainties disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary quali cations or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identi ed material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or 74 J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
7 Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 69, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satis ed that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to in uence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identi ed areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general sector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with Directors the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identi ed laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identi ed at Group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations varies considerably.
Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable pro ts legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Groups licence to operate.
We identi ed the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: health and safety, anti-bribery, employment law and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the multinational and operational nature of the Groups activities.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
Through these procedures we identi ed transactions with increased risk of non-compliance and considered the effect as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Further detail in respect of Group operations in overseas jurisdictions with uncertain legislation is set out in the key audit matter disclosures in section 2.
75 STRA GOVERNANCE TEGIC REPORT J ames F isher and S ons plc A nnual R eport and A ccounts 2018 Independent auditor's report continued Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions re ected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Mike Barradell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 St Peters Square Manchester M2 3AE 25 February 2019 76
