Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report 1.
Our Opinion is Unmodified We have audited the financial statements of JD Sports Fashion Plc the Company for the 53 week period ended 3 February 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Company Balance Sheet, the Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 3 February 2018 and of the Groups profit for the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders in March 1996.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 22 financial periods ended 3 February 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: 13.0m 2017: 10.0m group financial statements as a whole 4.4% 2017: 4.2% of profit before tax Coverage 87.9% 2017: 86.0% of group profit before tax Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 Recurring risks Group: Recoverability of goodwill and fascia names Group and parent company: Valuation of inventories Event driven risk Group: Valuation of the separately identifiable intangible assets recognised as part of the acquisition of Sport Zone 108 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report 2.
Key Audit Matters: Our Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion left, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Recoverability of Goodwill and Fascia Names 193.2 million: 2017: 190.9million Refer to page 90 Audit Committee Report, pages 140 to 141 accounting policy and pages 137 to 143 financial disclosures.
The Risk Forecast based valuation: Goodwill and fascia names are significant and at risk of recoverability due to challenging trading conditions in certain of the high street retail sectors and locations that the Group operates in.
The estimated recoverable amounts are subjective due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows therefore this is one of the key areas that our audit concentrated on.
Our Response Our procedures included: Historical comparisons: assessing the reasonableness of the budgets by considering the historical accuracy of previous forecasts: Our sector experience: assessing whether assumptions used, in particular those relating to short term forecast revenue growth, profit margins and the long term growth rate, reflect our knowledge of the business and industry, including known or probable changes in the business environment: Benchmarking assumptions: using our own valuation specialists, challenging the key inputs used in the Groups calculation of the discount rates by comparing them to externally derived data, including available sources for comparable companies: Sensitivity analysis: performing sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions noted above: Assessing transparency: assessing whether the Groups disclosures about the impairment tests and resulting impairment loss appropriately reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill and fascia names: Our Results We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of goodwill and fascia names to be acceptable.
109 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report 2.
Key Audit Matters: Our Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement continued Valuation of inventories Group: 478.0 million: 2017: 348.0 million Company: 144.0 million: 2017: 116.6 million Refer to page 90 Audit Committee Report, page 147 accounting policy and page 147 financial disclosures.
The Risk Subjective estimate: Inventories is one of the most significant items on the Groups and parent companys balance sheets and is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
As the Group operates in the retail business where branded products are subject to frequent changes in desirability, the assessment of net realisable value involves significant judgements around the determination of stock that may not be in demand in the future and sales proceeds expected from such stock.
Due to the level of judgement, we consider the valuation of inventories to be a significant audit risk.
Our Response Our procedures included: Our sector experience: assessing the directors methodology and key assumptions behind the provision, including the expected level of stock that will not be in demand and respective sales prices, against our knowledge of the business and industry and historical track record of the Group: Expectation vs outcome: forming our own expectation of the inventory provision using our own view of the key assumptions above and comparing our expectation to the actual provision amount.
This included analysing inventory balances by season and criteria such as stock not bought in the last 6 months and slower moving stock: Test of detail: examining recent selling prices of a sample of inventory lines to assess whether lines already being discounted below cost are included in the provision: Assessing transparency: assessing the adequacy of the financial statement disclosures about the degree of estimation in arriving at the net realisable value.
Our Results We consider the valuation of inventories to be acceptable 2017 result: acceptable.
Valuation of the Separately Identifiable Intangible Assets Recognised as part of the Acquisition of Sport Zone Portugal 13.1 million: 2017: n a Refer to page 91 Audit Committee Report, page 130 accounting policy and page 131 to 132 financial disclosures.
The Risk Subjective valuation: On 31 January 2018 the Group acquired a controlling interest in Sport Zone Portugal.
Included within the fair value of net identifiable assets recognised on acquisition are separately identifiable intangible assets of 13.1m, the valuation of which involves significant judgements over certain assumptions such as future revenue growth, royalty relief rates and discount rates.
This is considered to be a significant audit risk as it may affect the balance between non-amortisable and amortisable intangible assets.
110 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report 2.
Key Audit Matters: Our Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement continued Our Response Our procedures included: Methodology choice: with the assistance of our valuation specialists, assessing the results of the valuation by checking that the valuation was in accordance with relevant accounting standards and acceptable valuation practice.
Benchmarking assumptions: with the assistance of our valuation specialists, challenging the key inputs used in the valuation, in particular, discount rates and royalty rates by comparing them to externally derived data and comparable transactions.
Our sector experience: assessing whether the key assumptions used, in particular revenue growth rate, reflect our knowledge of the business and industry, including assessing the forecast growth against historic actual growth for the acquired business.
Assessing transparency: assessing the appropriateness of the Groups disclosures in respect of the valuation of intangible assets recognised on acquisition.
Our Results We found the valuation of the separately identifiable intangible assets to be acceptable.
Our Application of Materiality and an Overview of the Scope of Our Audit The materiality of the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 13.0 million 2017: 10.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents 4.4% 2017: 4.2%.
The materiality of the Parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 9.5 million 2017: 7.2 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Parent Company profit before tax, of which it represents 3.8% 2017: 3.5%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and uncorrected misstatements exceeding 0.65 million 2017: 0.5 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the groups 55 2017: 40 reporting components, we subjected 6 2017: 5 to audits for group reporting purposes and 1 2017: 1 component was subject to specified risk-focused audit procedures covering the specific risk areas including those identified in this report.
The component was not individually financially significant enough to require a full scope audit for group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The remaining 21% 2017: 20% of total group revenue, 12% 2017: 14% of group profit and losses before tax and 23% 2017: 13% of total group assets is represented by 48 reporting components 2017: 34, none of which individually represented more than 5% of any total group revenue, group profit before tax or total group assets.
For these remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 0.9m to 9.5m 2017: 1.0m to 7.2m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 3 out of the 7 components 2017: 3 of the 6 components was performed by component auditors and the rest by the Group team.
The parent company audit was performed by the Group audit team.
The Group team visited 3 2017: 3 component locations in Spain, France, and the Netherlands, which included assessing the audit risk and strategy.
Video and telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
The Group team also reviewed specific areas of the component auditors files.
111 Group Revenue Group profit Before Tax 1 3 3 3 79% 88% 2017:80% 2017:86% 77 83 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report 76 87 Profit Before Tax Group Materiality 294.5m 2017: 238.4m $13m 2017: 10.0m 13.0m Whole financial statements materiality 2017: 10.0m 9.5m Range of materiality at 7 components 0.9m to 9.5m 2017: 1.0m to 7.2m 0.65m Misstatements reported to the audit committee 2017: 0.5m Profit before tax Group materiality Group Revenue Group Profit Before Tax Group Total Assets Group Revenue Group profit Before Tax Group Total Assets 1 1 3 3 3 79% 88% 77% 2 2017: 2017: 2017: 80% 86% 87% 77 83 86 76 87 75 Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 Residual components 112 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report 4.
We Have Nothing to Report on Going Concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 52 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We Have Nothing to Report on the Other Information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic Report and Directors Report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report In our opinion the parts of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of Principal Risks and Longer-Term Viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 46 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
113 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report 5.
We Have Nothing to Report on the Other Information in the Annual Report continued Corporate Governance Disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you: if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We Have Nothing to Report on the Other Matters on Which we are Required to Report by Exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective Responsibilities Directors Responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 107, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors Responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher than for one resulting from error, as they may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and may involve any area of law and regulation not just those directly affecting the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
114 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report 7.
Respective Responsibilities continued Irregularities Ability to Detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience and through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of health and safety, anti-bribery, employment law, and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the nature of the groups activities and its legal form.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The Purpose of our Audit Work and to Whom We Owe Our Responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Mick Davies Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 1 St. Peters Square, Manchester, M2 3AE 16 April 2018 115
