Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of John Wood Group PLC 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of John Wood Group PLC the Company for the year ended 31 December Materiality: group financial $50m statements as a whole 2018 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the 0.5% of revenue Consolidated statement of comprehensive income expense, Coverage 79% of group revenue the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Key audit matters Company balance sheet, the Company statement of changes in equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies Event driven The impact of uncertainties due of pages 91 to 98 and 162 to 163. to the UK exiting the European Union on our audit In our opinion: Recurring risks Revenue recognition on fixed price the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state contracts of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups loss for the year then Goodwill impairment ended: Litigation, investigations and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared contingent liabilities in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: Uncertain tax positions the parent Company financial statements have been properly US asbestos related claims prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, provision including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Gross defined benefit pension the financial statements have been prepared in accordance liability with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Event driven Amec Foster Wheeler Plc regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS acquisition measurement period Regulation.
adjustments Basis for opinion Parent Company recurring risk Recoverability of Parent We conducted our audit in accordance with International Companys investment in subsidiaries Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 11 May 2018.
The financial year ended 31 December 2018 is our first year as auditor.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
78 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response The impact of Unprecedented levels of uncertainty: We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to uncertainties due to the the consideration of the uncertainties arising from All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness UK exiting the European Brexit in planning and performing our audits.
Our of estimates, in particular as described in goodwill procedures included: Union on our audit impairment below, and related disclosures and the appropriateness of the going concern basis of Our Brexit knowledge: We considered the directors Refer to page 39 principal preparation of the financial statements.
All of these assessment of Brexit-related sources of risk for the risks, and page 42 viability depend on assessments of the future economic Groups business and financial resources compared statement.
environment and the groups future prospects and with our own understanding of the risks.
considered the directors plans to take action to mitigate the risks.
In addition, we are required to consider the other information presented in the Annual Report including Sensitivity analysis: When addressing goodwill the principal risks disclosure and the viability statement impairment and other areas that depend on and to consider the directors statement that the forecasts, we compared the directors analysis to annual report and financial statements taken as our assessment of the full range of reasonably a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and possible scenarios resulting from Brexit uncertainty provides the information necessary for shareholders to and, where forecast cash flows are required to be assess the Groups position and performance, business discounted, considered adjustments to discount model and strategy.
rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.
Brexit is one of the most significant economic events Assessing transparency: As well as assessing for the UK and at the date of this report its effects individual disclosures as part of our procedures on are subject to unprecedented levels of uncertainty goodwill impairment we considered all of the Brexit of outcomes, with the full range of possible effects related disclosures together, including those in the unknown.
strategic report, comparing the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
Our results As reported under goodwill impairment, we found the resulting estimates and related disclosures of goodwill impairment and disclosures in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
Revenue recognition on Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: fixed price contracts Long-term, fixed price contracts can include both Personnel interviews: we obtained an complex technical and commercial requirements and understanding of the performance and status of Revenue from lump sum last for a number of years.
a sample of contracts through discussion with contracts $3,252.8 operational and finance contract project teams to million At each balance sheet date, estimates and ensure all relevant information was included in cost assumptions involving a high degree of estimation Refer to page 57 Audit forecasts.
uncertainty are required to: Committee Report, page Test of detail: for a sample of contracts, we 93 accounting policy estimate the forecast costs to complete the analysed correspondence with customers around and page 101 financial contract, as revenue is recognised with reference variations and claims to challenge the estimates of disclosures.
to the percentage of costs incurred relative to total claims and variations included in the forecast.
forecast costs on the contract: Test of detail: inspected a sample of contracts incorporate an allowance for technical and for key financial clauses and correspondence with commercial risks or customer claims or contract customers.
We compared these to assumptions in penalties: and the forecasts and challenged variances.
estimate the likelihood of the approval of contract Test of detail: for a sample of contracts analysed variations for additional compensation.
the revenue and cost forecasts on contracts The effect of these matters is that, as part of including allowances tested and challenged the our risk assessment, we determined that revenue estimates within the forecasts by considering the from fixed price contracts has a high degree of forecast value of the amount of work still to be estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of delivered and against programme run rates, and reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality any contingency held.
for the financial statements as a whole.
The financial statements note 2 disclose the sensitivity estimated Our results by the Group.
We considered the amount of revenue on fixed price contracts to be acceptable.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Financial statements | Independent auditors report The risk Our response Goodwill impairment Forecast-based valuation: Our procedures included: The Group estimates recoverable amounts based Assessing methodology: we assessed whether the Goodwill - $5,398.5 on value in use which requires significant estimation principles and integrity of the cash flow model is in million in forecasting future cash flows and determining accordance with relevant accounting standards.
Refer to page 57 Audit discount rates.
Sensitivity analysis: we performed our own Committee Report, page There was only limited headroom in the goodwill sensitivity analysis including a reasonably possible 92 accounting policy and impairment tests for the Asset Solutions EAAA and reduction in forecast cash flows and an alternative pages 109-110 financial the Environment & Infrastructure Solutions Cash discount rate assumption to assess level of disclosures.
Generating Units making their impairment risk very sensitivity to these.
sensitive to changes in key assumptions.
Our sector experience: we considered the most The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk sensitive assumptions in determining the cash flows assessment, we determined that the value in use of and growth assumptions applied with reference goodwill has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, to the accuracy of historical forecasts and wider with a potential range of reasonable outcomes macro-environment conditions.
greater than our materiality for the financial Our valuation expertise: we challenged the statements as a whole, and possibly many times that assumptions used by the Group in the calculation amount.
The financial statements note 9 disclose of the discount rates, including comparisons with the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
external data sources and by involving our own valuation specialist to assist us in assessing the discount rate assumptions applied.
Benchmarking assumptions: we compared the Groups assumptions to externally derived data in relation to key inputs such as discount rates.
Assessing transparency: we assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to a reasonably possible change in the discount rate and cash flows reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Our results As a result of our work, we found the Groups resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of goodwill to be acceptable.
Litigation, investigations Dispute outcome: Our procedures included: and contingent liabilities A number of significant claims are being litigated Enquiry of lawyers: on all significant legal cases where the potential exposure could be high.
We and investigations, where available, we assessed Certain amounts forming consider those with a with potential exposure greater correspondence with the Groups external lawyers part of project related than $25 million to be the most significant.
The in order to corroborate our understanding of these provisions $301.9 million outcome of any such litigations is uncertain and any matters, accompanied by discussions with external Refer to page 57 Audit position taken by management involves significant counsel in relation to investigations.
Committee Report, page judgements and estimates.
Personnel interviews: on all significant matters 93 accounting policy and The Group has made a number of disclosures subject to litigation adversarial proceedings, pages 122, 125 and 143 to the US Securities and Exchange Commission we discussed the status of those matters with financial disclosures.
SEC, the US Department of Justice DoJ, the UK internal counsel and considered the documentation Serious Fraud Office SFO, the Crown Office and available to support the assessment as to whether Procurator Fiscal Service COPFS in Scotland and the matter should be provided for or disclosed as a the Brazilian Federal Prosecution Service and Office contingent liability.
of the Comptroller General, and other regulators in Assessing provisions: where provisions were relation to historic business practices and agreements required we considered the documentation with commercial intermediaries including Unaoil and available, evaluated the assumptions used in possible bribery and corruption related offences.
determining the likely economic outflow and The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessed the basis of managements estimate.
assessment, we determined that the provisions and Our compliance expertise: we used our own contingent liabilities for litigations and investigations forensic specialists to analyse correspondence with has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with regulators to assess the status of investigations a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater in relation to historic business practices and than our materiality for the financial statements as agreements with commercial intermediaries a whole, and possibly many times that amount.
The including Unaoil and possible bribery and corruption financial statements notes 19 and 33 disclose the related offences.
range estimated by the Group.
Assessing transparency: we assessed whether the Groups disclosures detailing significant legal proceedings and investigations adequately disclose the potential liabilities of the Group.
Our results From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning and contingent liability disclosures for litigations and investigations to be acceptable.
80 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The risk Our response Uncertain tax positions Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: The Group operates in a number of territories Our tax expertise: we used our own tax specialists $176.9 million worldwide with complex local and international tax from the UK and overseas to perform an Refer to page 57 Audit legislation.
There are significant uncertainties in the assessment of the Groups tax positions through Committee Report, page estimates of provisions due to potential exposures the review of correspondence with the relevant tax 92 accounting policy arising from past tax planning arrangements and tax authorities and discussions with the Group.
We and page 106 financial audits.
Tax provisioning for uncertain tax positions challenged the assumptions applied using our own disclosures.
is judgmental and requires estimates to be made in expectations based on our knowledge of the Group relation to existing and potential tax matters.
and considered relevant judgements passed by authorities.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that provision Assessing transparency: we assessed the adequacy for uncertain tax positions has a high degree of of the Groups disclosure in respect of tax and estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of uncertain tax positions.
reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality Our results for the financial statements as a whole.
The financial We considered the level of provisioning for statements note 6 disclose the range estimated by uncertain tax positions to be acceptable.
US asbestos related claims Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: provision The amount of the US asbestos related litigation Our actuarial expertise: we used our own US provision depends on a number of estimates, including actuarial specialists to challenge key assumptions $453.4 million the forecast number of open and future claims, the and estimates used in the calculation of the Refer to page 57 Audit average cost per claim, the number of claims that US asbestos related claims provision.
The key Committee Report, page result in no settlement and the discount rate applied assumptions and estimates we tested included the 93 accounting policy and to the forecast.
forecast number of open and future claims, the pages 122-124 financial average cost per claim, the number of claims that There is a considerable amount of judgement required disclosures.
result in no settlement and the discount rate.
in setting the above assumptions and a small change in the assumptions and estimates may have a Benchmarking assumptions: we performed a significant impact on the US asbestos related claims comparison of key assumptions against our provision.
own benchmark ranges which are derived from externally-available data.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that estimate of the US Methodology choice: we used our own US actuarial asbestos related claims provision has a high degree specialists to assess the appropriateness and of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of selection of the model used in the valuation.
reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality Test of detail: we evaluated the assumption for the for the financial statements as a whole, and possibly average costs per claim against the recent history many times that amount.
The financial statements of claims settled.
note 19 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Assessing valuer's credentials: we assessed Group.
the directors external valuers competence and independence.
Assessing transparency: we considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosure in respect of the US asbestos related claims provision and the assumptions used, which are set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
Our results We found the US asbestos related claims provision recognised to be acceptable.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Financial statements | Independent auditors report The risk Our response Gross defined benefit Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: pension liability The valuation of the gross defined benefit pension Our actuarial expertise: we used our own actuarial liability depends on a number of estimates, including specialists to challenge key assumptions and $3,808.1 million the discount rates used to calculate the current estimates used in the calculation of the pension Refer to page 57 Audit value of the future payments the Group expects to deficit.
Committee Report, page pay pensioners, the rate of inflation that must be Methodology assessment: we used our own 92 accounting policy and incorporated in the estimate of the future pension actuarial specialists to assess the appropriateness pages 138-142 financial payments, the GMP equalisation adjustment and the and consistency of the methodology applied by disclosures.
life expectancy of pension scheme members.
management in setting the key assumptions.
There is a considerable amount of judgement Benchmarking assumptions: we performed a required in setting the above assumptions and a comparison of key assumptions against our small change in the assumptions and estimates may own benchmark ranges which are derived from have a significant impact on the retirement benefit externally-available data as well as comparing obligations.
against those used by other companies reporting The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk on the same period.
assessment, we determined that the gross defined Assessing valuer's credentials: we assessed benefit pension obligations has a high degree of the directors external valuers competence and estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of independence.
reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality Assessing transparency: we considered the for the financial statements as a whole, and possibly adequacy of the Groups disclosure in respect of many times that amount.
The financial statements retirement benefits, in particular the gross defined note 31 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the benefit obligation and the assumptions used, which Group.
are set out in note 31 to the financial statements.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the gross defined benefit liability to be acceptable.
Amec Foster Wheeler Plc Accounting treatment: Our procedures included: acquisition measurement Following the acquisition of Amec Foster Wheeler Accounting analysis: we assessed the directors period adjustments Plc in October 2017, the Group completed a Purchase analysis of each measurement period adjustment Price Allocation exercise to provisionally account for against the relevant accounting standard with our $132.1 million the acquisition by estimating the fair value of assets component audit teams.
Refer to page 57 Audit acquired and liabilities taken on.
Testing application: for a sample of measurement Committee Report, page From the date of acquisition, the Group has a twelve period adjustments we challenged the 92 accounting policy and month 'measurement period' to update this initial Groups assessment of whether the facts and pages 109-110 financial valuation for any new information that becomes circumstances resulting in the adjustment disclosures.
available relating to circumstances and conditions existed at October 2017 and new information at the October 2017 acquisition date.
Measurement resulting in their re-measurement was obtained period adjustments are recorded against goodwill.
in the measurement period, based on enquiries with operational and finance project teams There is a risk that the facts and circumstances and inspection of documents supporting their behind measurement period adjustments arose assessment.
We challenged the Groups consistency subsequent to the acquisition and the amount should for recording measurement period adjustments, be recognised in profit and loss.
rather than income and expenses for the period.
Our results We found the Group's identification and treatment of Amec Foster Wheeler acquisition measurement period adjustments to be acceptable.
Parent Company risk: Low risk, high value: Our procedures included: The carrying amount of the Parent Companys Test of detail: compared the carrying amount Recoverability of parent investments in subsidiaries represents 59% of the of all investments with the relevant subsidiaries companys investment in Companys total assets.
Their recoverability is not draft balance sheet to identify whether their net subsidiaries at a high risk of significant misstatement or subject assets, being an approximation of their minimum Investment in subsidiaries to significant judgement.
However, due to their recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying - $4,568.9 million materiality in the context of the Parent Company amount.
financial statements, this is considered to be the area Refer to page 57 Audit Comparing valuations: for two investments where that had the greatest effect on our overall Parent Committee Report, page the carrying amount exceeded the net asset Company audit.
162 accounting policy value, we compared the carrying amount of the and page 164 financial investment with the expected value of the business disclosures.
based on a cash flow model.
Our results We found the Companys assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
82 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Revenue Group Materiality 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit $10,014.4m $50m Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was $50m set at $50 million, determined with reference to a benchmark Whole financial of Group revenue, of $10,014.4 million, of which it represents statements materiality 0.5%.
We consider Group revenue to be the most appropriate benchmark as it provides a more stable measure year on year than Group profit before tax.
Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at $20 million, determined with reference to a $20m benchmark of Company total assets, of which it represents 0.3%.
Range of materiality at 31 components We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected $2.5m-$20m or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding $2 million, Group revenue in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted $2m reporting on qualitative grounds.
Group materiality Misstatements reported to the audit committee We subjected 24 reporting components to full scope audits for group purposes and 7 to specified risk-focused audit Group revenue procedures over cash 6 components : revenue, cost of sales, trade receivables, trade payables 5 components : accruals Residual components 11% 4 components : provisions 3 components : intangible assets 2 components : and administrative expenses 1 component.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough Full scope for group to require a full scope audit but were included in the scope of Specified risk-focused 79% audit purposes 2018 audit procedures 2018 our group reporting work in order to provide further coverage 76% 3% over the Groups results.
The Group operates shared service centres, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the reporting components they service and therefore they are not Group profit and losses that made separate reporting components.
Two shared service centres up profit before tax were subject to specified risk-focused audit procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing controls.
Residual components 17% Additional procedures were performed at certain reporting components to address the audit risks not covered by the Full scope for group work performed over the shared service centres.
audit purposes Specified risk-focused 83% 2018 The components within the scope of our work accounted for audit procedures 2018 72% the percentages illustrated opposite.
11% For the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
Group total assets The Group team instructed component auditors in fourteen locations, as to the significant areas to be covered, including Residual components 13% the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 Full scope for group The Group team approved the component materialities, which 3% audit purposes 2018 87% ranged from $2.5 million to $20 million, having regard to the 84% mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 29 of the 31 reporting components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
Group profit and losses that made up profit before The Group team visited 9 of 14 component locations in exceptional items, interest and tax the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, United Arab Emirates and Italy, to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these Residual components 20% component auditors and all others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any Full scope for group 80% audit purposes 2018 further work required by the Group team was then performed Specified risk-focused 69% by the component auditor.
audit procedures 2018 11% John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Financial statements | Independent auditors report 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the The directors are responsible for the other information Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as they presented in the Annual Report together with the financial have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going of assurance conclusion thereon.
concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in financial statements the going concern period.
doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the audit work, the information therein is materially misstated directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit related to going concern, to make reference to that in this knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events material misstatements in the other information.
or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at Strategic report and directors report the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material Based solely on our work on the other information: uncertainty in this auditor's report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue in operation.
we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model in our opinion the information given in those reports for the and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and Companys financial resources or ability to continue operations in our opinion those reports have been prepared in over the going concern period.
The risks that we considered accordance with the Companies Act 2006. most likely to adversely affect the Groups and Companys available financial resources over this period were: Directors remuneration report Project execution of the major complex contracts: In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the The achievement of forecast Adjusted EBITA growth: Companies Act 2006.
An adverse outcome of regulatory investigations: An adverse outcome on uncertain tax position: and Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial The impact from a material litigation.
statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt attention to in relation to: on the Groups and the Company's ability to continue as a going the directors confirmation within the Principal Risks and concern, we considered sensitivities over the level of available Uncertainties page 39 that they have carried out a robust financial resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including taking account of reasonably possible but not unrealistic those that would threaten its business model, future adverse effects that could arise from these risks individually performance, solvency and liquidity: and collectively and evaluated the achievability of the actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position the Analysis of Principal Risks disclosures describing these should the risks materialise.
We also considered less predictable risks and explaining how they are being managed and but realistic second order impacts, such as the impact of Brexit mitigated: and which could result in delay or reduction of investments in to the the directors explanation in the Principal Risks and UK and lower growth in UK businesses.
Uncertainties of how they have assessed the prospects of Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their we have anything material to add or draw attention to statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation in relation to the directors statement on Page 91 to the that the Group will be able to continue in operation and financial statements on the use of the going concern basis meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast assessment, including any related disclosures drawing significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Principal approval of the financial statements: or Risks and Uncertainties.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 42 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions identify going concern as a key audit matter.
and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
84 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance disclosures Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably We are required to report to you if: be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements we have identified material inconsistencies between the from our general commercial and sector experience, through knowledge we acquired during our financial statements discussion with the directors and other management as required audit and the directors statement that they consider that by auditing standards, from inspection of the Groups regulatory the annual report and financial statements taken as a and legal correspondence and discussed with the directors whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the and other management the policies and procedures regarding information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated position and performance, business model and strategy: or identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained the section of the annual report describing the work of the alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the affect the financial statements including financial reporting eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code legislation including related companies legislation, distributable specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
profits legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of We have nothing to report in these respects.
our procedures on the related financial statement items.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations which we are required to report by exception where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss you if, in our opinion: of Groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas adequate accounting records have not been kept by the as those most likely to have such an effect: health and safety, parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not anti-bribery, and employment law recognising the financial nature been received from branches not visited by us: or of the Groups activities.
Auditing standards limit the required the parent Company financial statements and the part of audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other management and the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
Through these procedures, we became aware of actual or suspected noncertain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law compliance and considered the effect as part of our procedures on are not made: or the related financial statement items.
Further detail is set out in we have not received all the information and explanations we the key audit matter disclosures in section 2 of this report.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an We have nothing to report in these respects.
unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we 7.
Respective responsibilities have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed nonDirectors responsibilities compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 46, events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing statements including being satisfied that they give a true and standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Auditors responsibilities body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we the financial statements as a whole are free from material might state to the Companys members those matters we misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error Catherine Burnet Senior Statutory Auditor and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions Chartered Accountants of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
37 Albyn Place A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the Aberdeen, AB10 1JB FRCs website at www.
18 March 2019 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85
