Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc Basis for opinion 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have audited the accounts of Johnson Matthey Plc Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
the company for the year ended 31st March 2018 which Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated and basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our Parent Company Balance Sheets, Consolidated and Parent report to the Audit Committee.
Company Cash Flow Statements, Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders in 1985.
The notes, including the Accounting Policies.
period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 33 financial years ended 31st March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical In our opinion: responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
31st March 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: Overview the group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Materiality: 23 million 2017: 22 million Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU : group accounts 5% 2017: 5% of adjusted profit before tax as a whole the parent company accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and as Coverage 83% 2017: 84% of group profit before tax applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 Act 2006: and the accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Recurring risks Refinery process and stock takes requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards Taxation accounting the group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
New: Product claims and uncertainties Carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles 192 Independent auditors report to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the accounts and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters changed from 2017 to include product claims and uncertainties and to remove post-employment benefits, in decreasing order of significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the accounts as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Group and company Physical quantities: Our procedures included: Refinery process and The group refines a significant amount of Control observations: Assessing through observation, stock takes metal as set out in note 1.
The year end interview and reperformance on a sample basis the metal inventory quantity is determined from: adequacy of group controls over the assay system, metal The group refines over i assay estimates of the metal contained processing and inventory including physical security, four million ounces of in the carrier material entering and refined metal receipt and dispatch, metal recording, reconciling platinum group metals metal leaving the refining process, and the production and accounting systems, assaying and per annum with a market ii estimates of process losses, rolled forward stock takes: value of 3.4 billion.
from iii assay estimates of the metal Count attendance and design: Attending certain physical Refer to page 105 content in the plants at the time of stock stock takes to verify the design and implementation of Audit Committee Report takes which take place at different times stock take processes and physical quantities counted: and page 148 earlier than the financial year end.
Count vs system reconciliation: Seeking to understand Furthermore, the plants process material and corroborate the reasons for significant or unusual on behalf of third parties, whereby the movements in inventory quantities between the group must return pre-agreed recoverable accounting records and the physical stock takes: Evaluating quantities of refined metal to those parties: the roll forward of inventory from the point of stock take under or over recovery or other loss directly to the year end to assess the potential for misstatement: impacts the groups own metal inventory.
Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging the assay A full stock take was not performed at the estimates taken by management by comparing these UK refineries during the year which led to an to assay estimates undertaken by customers and third increased period between the previous stock party umpires: take and the financial year end.
Historical comparisons: Assessing provisions for The year end metal inventory is dependent inventory loss compared to historical trends and stock upon the physical quantities measured in the take results to assess the likelihood and quantum of assay samples in i and iii.
The risks are processing loss if any of metal between the date of the such that a small variation in estimates could stock take and the year end date: and have a material effect on the valuation of inventory in the accounts.
Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the measured inventory.
Our results: As a result we found the valuation of inventory to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Group and company Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: Taxation accounting The group operates in multiple jurisdictions Our taxation expertise: With the assistance of our governed by national tax laws and own local and international tax specialists who have Tax provisions of 86 million regulations and is required to estimate knowledge of the relevant indirect and direct tax regimes 2017: 89 million.
the tax effect of cross border transactions and experience in their application, analysing and Refer to page 106 including transfer pricing arrangements.
challenging the assumptions used to determine the tax Audit Committee Report, Where the precise impact of these laws charge and provisioning: and benchmarking assumptions: page 147 accounting and regulations on indirect taxes and the and assessing correspondence with the relevant tax policy and pages 155-156 tax payable on profits arising in those authorities including the status of tax authority audits financial disclosures.
jurisdictions is unclear, the group seeks to and inquiries: and make reasonable estimates to determine Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the tax charge arising.
the groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
Our results: From the evidence obtained, we found the level of tax provisioning to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
193 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Group Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: Product claims and The groups products are complex and Enquiry of lawyers: Inspection of correspondence with uncertainties produced to exacting standards.
Product internal and external counsel and formal confirmations quality issues may be identified subsequent from counsel of open cases: Provision of 18 million to delivery to and installation by customers.
included within other Test of detail: In relation to quantified issues, considering Accordingly at any point in time the group provisions of 27 million.
the status of discussions with customers, then testing and may be exposed to product liability issues challenging the basis of the groups calculations including In addition the group has including claims for damages or compensation.
the rectification or remediation cost estimates: and a contingent liability for The group holds provisions for the potential potential further product Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of costs associated with these risks.
The claims for which the the groups disclosures in respect of the loss on significant assumptions underpinning these provisions outcome of any discussions legal proceedings and contingent liabilities.
is uncertain, and where Our results: From the evidence obtained, we found the the group is unable to level of provisioning and disclosure in respect of product Dispute outcome: make a reliable estimate claims to be acceptable.
of any possible financial Where the group is unable to make a reliable consequence at this stage.
estimate of potential exposures it discloses these risks as a contingent liability.
Should Refer to page 106 the group be unable to successfully defend Audit Committee Report, its position, these risks could give rise to a page 148 accounting future liability.
policy and pages 181-182 financial disclosures.
Group Forecast-based valuation: Our procedures included: Carrying value of goodwill The group has significant intangible assets Assessing methodology: Obtaining the discounted cash and other intangible assets and goodwill arising from the acquisition of flow models and assessing the principles and integrity of businesses and investments in new products each model: Goodwill of 574 million and technologies.
Some investments and 2017: 607 million Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging the groups recent acquisitions are still at an early stage and other intangible valuation assumptions for its cash flow projections such of commercial development and as such, assets of 295 million as discount rates and cost inflation, with reference to carry a greater risk that they will not be 2017: 288 million.
internally and externally derived sources: commercially viable.
In the current year there Our valuations expertise: Assessing the inputs based was a pre-tax impairment Recoverability of these assets is based on on our own insights and experience and challenging the charge of 11 million forecasting and discounting future cash appropriateness of the discount rate with the assistance against the carrying value flows, which are inherently judgemental.
of our own valuation specialists: of the Water Technologies Sensitivity analysis: Performing breakeven analysis on CGU reflecting lower the assumptions noted above: growth rate assumptions for these businesses.
Historical comparisons: Assessing the groups historical forecasting accuracy by comparing the groups prior year Refer to page 106 forecasts with actuals: and Audit Committee Report, page 147 accounting Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of policy and page 169-170 the groups disclosures in respect of impairment testing financial disclosures.
and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuations.
Our results: As a result of our testing we found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of goodwill and other intangible assets to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
We continue to perform procedures over post-employment benefits.
However, following our review of our previous years audit findings, we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report for 2018.
194 Independent auditors report to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc Adjusted profit before tax Group Materiality 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview 467 million 23 million of the scope of our audit 2017: 462 million 2017: 22 million Materiality for the group accounts as a whole was set at 23.0 million 2017: 22.0 million, determined with reference 23.0 million Whole financial statements materiality to a benchmark of group profit before tax, excluding the loss on 2017: 22 million disposal of businesses, the loss on significant legal proceedings and major impairment and restructuring charges as disclosed on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement, of which it represents 5% 2017: 5%.
We agreed to report to the Audit 10.5 million Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified profit Range of materiality at 55 components 0.1 million to 10.5 million misstatements exceeding 0.5 million 2017: 0.5 million, in 2017: 0.1 million to 10.5 million addition to other identified misstatements warranting reporting on qualitative grounds.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 20 million 2017: 20 million determined with reference to a benchmark of Adjusted profit before tax 0.5 million Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee Group materiality company total assets, of which it represents 0.4% 2017: 0.4%.
2017: 0.5 million In establishing the overall approach to our audit, we considered the decentralised nature of the groups operations, the risk profile of countries where the group operates, our historical audit findings and changes taking place within the business.
We also considered Group revenue Group profit before tax the financial significance and risks associated with each business together with any local statutory audit requirements.
11 17 Of the groups 55 2017: 57 reporting components, we 10 subjected 44 2017: 44 to audits for group reporting purposes, 16 13 8 2017: 10 to specified risk focused audit procedures over 14 8 revenue, inventory and receivables and 3 2017: 3 to specified 10 89% 83% risk focused audit procedures over inventory, including in China, 2017: 90% 2017: 84% Germany, India, Macedonia, South Africa, the UK and the US.
The components for which we performed specified risk-focused 76 76 procedures were not individually financially significant enough 76 73 to require an audit for group reporting purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for 89% of group revenue, 83% of group profit before tax and 82% of group total assets.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an Group total assets aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these, including through examining reports from local auditors on the 18 results of their statutory audit work.
In total these statutory 16 audits comprise 6% of group revenue, 7% of group profit before 3 tax and 10% of group total assets.
8 82% The group audit team instructed component auditors as to 2017: 84% the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
76 The group team approved component materiality, which ranged 79 from 0.1 million to 10.5 million 2017: 0.1 million to 10.5 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the group across the components.
The work on 43 of the 55 components was performed by the component auditors and the rest by the group team.
Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 The group audit team visited six component locations 2017: six Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 in China, Macedonia, South Africa, the Netherlands, the UK and specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 Residual components the US to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and all others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
195 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc Disclosures of principal risks and longer term viability 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial We are required to report to you if: statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw we have anything material to add or draw attention to in attention to in relation to: relation to the directors statement on page 135 on the use the directors confirmation within the viability statement of the going concern basis of accounting with no material that they have carried out a robust assessment of the uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the principal risks facing the group, including those that would groups and companys use of that basis for a period of at threaten its business model, future performance, solvency least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial and liquidity: statements: or the principal risks disclosures describing these risks and the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and page 74 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
the directors explanation in the viability statement of how We have nothing to report in these respects.
they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether 5.
We have nothing to report on the other they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be information in the annual report able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they The directors are responsible for the other information presented fall due over the period of their assessment, including any in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other qualifications or assumptions.
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing Corporate governance disclosures so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit We are required to report to you if: work, the information therein is materially misstated or we have identified material inconsistencies between the inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge we acquired during our financial statements knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified audit and the directors statement that they consider that material misstatements in the other information.
the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Strategic Report and Directors Report information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups Based solely on our work on the other information: position and performance, business model and strategy: or we have not identified material misstatements in the the section of the annual report describing the work of the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters in our opinion the information given in those reports communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or for the financial year is consistent with the financial a corporate governance statement has not been prepared statements: and by the company.
in our opinion those reports have been prepared in We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Directors Remuneration Report Listing Rules for our review.
The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited We have nothing to report in these respects.
extends from the Single Figure Table of Remuneration on page 123 to, and including, the Statement of directors shareholding Based solely on our work on the other information described above: on page 126: and in addition comprises the Explanation of with respect to the Corporate Governance Statement figures on page 124, the Variable pay additional disclosures, disclosures about internal control and risk management including bases of calculation and outcomes on pages 124 to 125, systems in relation to financial reporting processes and LTIP outcomes on page 126 and the Pension entitlements on about share capital structures: page 126. we have not identified material misstatements therein: In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to and be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the information therein is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion, the Corporate Governance Statement has been prepared in accordance with relevant rules of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
196 Independent auditors report to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters in the specific areas of health and safety and anti-bribery on which we are required to report by exception recognising the nature of the groups activities that may Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to inadvertently affect the financial statements.
With the exception you if, in our opinion: of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to been received from branches not visited by us: or enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect the parent company financial statements and the part of of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance law are not made: or throughout the audit.
This included communication from the we have not received all the information and explanations group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations we require for our audit.
identified at group level, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of non-compliance with relevant laws and We have nothing to report in these respects.
regulations irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
Respective responsibilities As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection Directors responsibilities of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of statements including being satisfied that they give a true and internal controls.
fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing owe our responsibilities the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Auditors responsibilities purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the financial statements as a whole are free from material the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities report, or for the opinions we have formed.
see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic Stephen Oxley Senior Statutory Auditor decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the Chartered Accountants FRCs website at www.
15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of law and regulation that could reasonably 30th May 2018 be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
197 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
