Independent Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JPMORGAN AMERICAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion the financial statements of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc the Company : give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st December 2018 and of its net return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and the Statement of Recommended Practice: Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts AIC SORP issued by the Association of Investment Companies in November 2014: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the statement of comprehensive income: the statement of changes in equity: the statement of financial position: the statement of cash flows: and the related notes 1 to 24.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Valuation and ownership of investments Completeness and allocation of investment income Calculation of performance fees Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 9,200,000 which was determined on the basis of 1% of net assets at 31st December 2018.
Scoping Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Significant changes No significant changes in our approach.
in our approach 4 6 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 1 a to the We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw financial statements about whether they considered it attention to in respect of these matters.
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Company, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw Based solely on reading the Directors statements and attention to in respect of these matters.
considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 27 to 28 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 27 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on pages 28 to 29 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Company required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I T O R S R E P O R T | 4 7 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation and ownership of fixed asset investments Key audit matter description There is a risk that investments within the portfolio may not be actively traded and the prices quoted may not be reflective of fair value or that they may not represent the property of the Company.
At 31st December 2018 the investment portfolio is made up of 910 million listed equities 2017: 1,070 million.
See Accounting policy at note 1 b and detailed disclosures at note 11.
This key audit matter was included as a significant issue in the Audit Committee Report on page 39.
How the scope of our We have performed the following procedures to test the valuation and ownership of investments at audit responded to the 31st December 2018: key audit matter reviewed the SOC 1 control reports issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank in order to assess whether the design and implementation of controls over the ownership and valuation of investments are appropriate: obtained a bridging letter from JPMorgan Chase Bank to assess whether that there have been no material changes to these controls from the date of the report to 31st December 2018: agreed 100% of the Companys investment portfolio at the year-end to confirmations received independently from the custodian: and agreed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments on the investment ledger at year end to closing bid prices published by an independent pricing source.
Key observations No matters were identified which required reporting to those charged with governance.
Completeness and allocation of investment income Key audit matter description Investment income for the year was 21.2 million 2017: 19.3 million.
Dividends are accounted for as investment income on an ex-dividend basis, except where, in the opinion of the Manager and the Board, the dividend is capital in nature, in which case it is treated as a return of capital.
There is a risk that investment income is incomplete or that it is incorrectly allocated between investment income and capital accounts.
We also identified this key audit matter as a potential fraud risk.
See Accounting policy at note 1 d and detailed disclosures at note 4.
4 8 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT How the scope of our We have performed the following procedures to test the completeness and allocation of investment audit responded to the income at 31st December 2018: key audit matter reviewed the SOC 1 internal control report issues by JPMorgan Global Fund Accounting to evaluate the design and implementation of key controls over accuracy and completeness of revenue: for 100% of listed investments, we obtained ex-dividend dates and rates for dividends declared during the year from external sources, and agreed the amounts recorded within the general ledger to confirm that the recognition policy had been applied consistently: agreed a sample of dividend income receipts to bank statement: and for a sample of corporate actions and special dividends, we challenged managements rationale for the allocation between revenue and capital against the requirements of the AIC SORP and agreed details of the dividend to a third party source to corroborate the nature of the dividend.
In addition to support our work on this key audit matter we have: reviewed the accounting policies for revenue recognition against the requirements of FRS 102 and the AIC SORP and performed testing to confirm their application during the year.
Calculation of Performance Fees Key audit matter description Performance fees or the performance provision are calculated based on the difference in the return between the Company and its benchmark, the S&P 500 index over 10%.
As this is a complex calculation, there is a risk the performance fee may be calculated incorrectly and not in line with the Investment Management Agreement.
There is also a risk that the performance fee calculation has not been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
There is no performance fee payable in the current period 2017: nil.
See Accounting policy at note 1 e and detailed disclosures at note 5.
How the scope of our We have performed the following procedures to test the calculation of performance fees at audit responded to the 31st December 2018: key audit matter reviewed the SOC 1 control reports issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank in order to confirm the design and implementation of controls over the calculation and approval of any performance fees are appropriate: obtained a bridging letter from JPMorgan Chase Bank to confirm that there have been no material changes to these controls from the date of the report to 31st December 2018: re-performed the calculation of performance fee using the inputs provided by management and the basis per the terms of the signed investment management agreement to confirm that no performance fee was payable in the current period: and evaluated whether the performance fee calculation has been subject to Board approval by reviewing the minutes of all Board and sub-committee meetings in the year ended 31st December 2018.
I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I T O R S R E P O R T | 4 9 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 9,200,000 2017: 9,800,000 Basis for determining 1% of net assets as at the year end.
This basis was also used in the prior year.
materiality Rationale for the Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark for benchmark applied investors and is the key driver of shareholder value.
Net Assets 919m Materiality 9m Net Assets Audit Committee Materiality reporting threshold 0.05m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 50,000 2017: 50,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit There were no changes to the scope of our audit since prior year.
Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work designed to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
As part of our audit we assessed the controls in place at the administrator who prepares the financial statements of the Company by reviewing a controls report over their activities.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
5 0 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Other information continued If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I T O R S R E P O R T | 5 1 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, the administrator and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Companys policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following area: Completeness and allocation of investment income as there is a potential risk that if investment income is manipulated so it is incomplete or incorrectly allocated between revenue and capital it could have a material impact on the Companys net asset value : and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the Company operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Company.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the Companies Act 2006 and UK Listing Rules, as well as the Company qualification as an Investment Trust under UK tax legislation.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified completeness and allocation of investment income as a key audit matter.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matter in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to that key audit matter.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management and the audit committee concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and any correspondence with HMRC: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
5 2 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Board on 10th January 2007 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31st December 2006 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 13 years, covering the years ending 31st December 2006 to 31st December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
I N D E P E N D E N T A U D I T O R S R E P O R T | 5 3 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Andrew Partridge, CA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor, London, United Kingdom 22nd March 2019 5 4 | J P M O R G A N A M E R I C A N I N V E S T M E N T T R U S T P L C. A N N U A L R E P O R T & F I N A N C I A L S T A T E M E N T S 2 0 1 8
