JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance continued Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Jupiter European Opportunities Trust PLC the directors explanation set out on page 10 in the annual report Opinion as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over We have audited the financial statements of Jupiter European what period they have done so and why they consider that period Opportunities Trust PLC the Company for the year ended 31 May to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a 2018 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Changes in Equity, operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 25, including a of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by Overview of our audit approach the European Union.
Key audit matters Risk of incomplete or inaccurate revenue In our opinion, the financial statements: recognition, including classification as revenue or capital items in the Statement of give a true and fair view of the Companys affairs as at 31 May Comprehensive Income.
2018 and of its profit for the year then ended: Risk of performance fees are not calculated in have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted accordance with the Investment Management by the European Union: and Agreement IMA or the methodology is open to interpretation.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Risk of incorrect valuation and defective title of the investment portfolio.
Basis for opinion Materiality Overall materiality of 8.73 million which We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on represents 1% of equity shareholders funds.
Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities Key audit matters for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to public the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern opinion on these matters.
and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 11 and 12 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 12 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 15 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or 27 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance continued Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Jupiter European Opportunities Trust PLC continued Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Incomplete or inaccurate revenue recognition, We have performed the following procedures: The results of our procedures are: including classification as revenue or capital We have no issues to communicate We assessed the Managers and Administrators items in the income statement per the accounting with respect to our assessment of processes and controls surrounding the revenue policy set out on page 35. the Managers and Administrators recognition process by reviewing the internal processes and controls surrounding The investment income receivable by the Company controls reports and performing our walkthrough the revenue recognition process.
during the year directly affects the Companys ability procedures to evaluate the design and operating to make a dividend payment to shareholders.
We agreed the sample of dividend investment income received for the year to 31 May receipts to an independent source, We agreed a sample of dividend receipts to 2018 was 16.11 million 2017: 16.54 million, recalculating these amounts and the corresponding announcement made by the being dividend receipts from listed investments.
agreeing them to the bank statements investee company, recalculated the dividend and noted no issues.
There is a risk of incomplete or inaccurate recognition amount receivable using exchange rates obtained of income through the failure to recognise proper from independent data vendor and confirmed that We agreed the sample of investee income entitlements or applying appropriate the cash received as shown on bank statements company announcements to the accounting treatment.
was consistent with the recalculated amount.
income entitlements recorded by the Company and noted no issues.
In addition to the above, the Directors are required We agreed a sample of investee company dividend We recalculated the accrued to exercise judgment in determining whether income announcements from an independent data vendor dividends, agreeing to post year end receivable in the form of special dividends should be to the income recorded by the Company to test bank statements, and confirming that classified as revenue or capital.
completeness of the income recorded.
the income obligation arose prior to 31 May 2018 and noted no issues.
No special dividends were recorded during the year.
For all dividends accrued at the year end, we reviewed the investee company announcements We reviewed the income report and to assess whether the dividend obligation arose acquisition and disposal report and prior to 31 May 2018.
We agreed the dividend confirmed that no special dividends rate to corresponding announcements made by above our testing threshold were the investee company, recalculated the dividend received during the year.
amount receivable and confirmed this was consistent with cash received as shown on post year end bank statements.
We reviewed the income report and the acquisition and disposal report produced by the Administrator to identify special dividends recorded in the year in excess of our testing threshold.
Performance fees are not calculated in We performed the following procedures: The results of our procedures are: accordance with the Investment Management We assessed the Managers and Administrators We have no issues to communicate Agreement IMA or the methodology is open processes and controls surrounding the net asset with respect to our assessment of to interpretation as described on page 21 of value and performance fee process by reviewing the Managers and Administrators the Report of the Audit Committee and as per the the internal controls reports and performing our processes and controls surrounding accounting policy set out on page 35. walkthrough procedures to assess the design and the net asset value and performance For the year ended 31 May 2018, the total operating effectiveness.
performance fee amounted to 13.08 million 2017: We recalculated the performance fee payable and We noted no issues in our recalculation 0.02 million in relation to the year ended 31 May ensured that the calculation is in line with the IMA.
of the performance fee in line with the 2016.
We validated all key external inputs used in the The performance fee payable by the Company for calculations to our audited financial information, We noted no issues in validating key investment management services is a significant the IMA and to external information produced by external inputs used in the calculations component of the Companys cost base and, data vendors.
to third party source data.
therefore, impacts the Companys total return.
We considered whether there were any areas of We noted no areas of the performance If the performance fee is not calculated in accordance interpretation of the performance fee that we were fee calculation which required with the methodology prescribed in the IMA this required to discuss with the Manager or Audit interpretation.
could have a significant impact on both costs and Committee.
28 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance continued Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Jupiter European Opportunities Trust PLC continued Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Incorrect valuation and defective title of the We performed the following procedures: The results of our procedures are: investment portfolio as described on page 21 in We assessed the Managers and Administrators We have no issues to communicate the Report of the Audit Committee and as per the processes and controls surrounding the investment with respect to our assessment of accounting policy set out on page 35. pricing process by reviewing the internal controls the Managers and Administrators The valuation of the assets held in the investment reports and performing our walkthrough procedures processes and controls surrounding portfolio is the key driver of the Companys net asset to assess the design and operating effectiveness.
Incorrect asset pricing, or a For all investments in the portfolio, we compared For all investments, we noted no failure to maintain proper legal title of the assets held the market values and exchange rates applied to differences above our tolerable level in by the Company could have a significant impact on an independent pricing vendor.
market value or exchange rates when the portfolio valuation and the return generated for compared to an independent pricing shareholders.
We reviewed the price exception and stale pricing vendor.
reports produced by the Administrator to highlight All investments are valued at fair value, which is and investigate any unexpected price movements We did not identify any price exceptions deemed to be their quoted bid price at the reporting in investments held as at the year-end.
or stale prices as part of our review of date without any deduction for estimated future these reports at the year-end.
We agreed the Companys investments to the independent confirmation received from the We noted no differences between the The valuation of the portfolio at 31 May 2018 was Companys Custodian Depositary as at 31 May Custodian Depositary confirmation 926.76 million 2017: 852.76 million consisting 2018. and the Companys underlying entirely of listed equities.
There have been no changes to the areas of key focus raised in the that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning above risk table from the prior year.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience An overview of the scope of our audit of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for for the Company, we have also applied a separate testing threshold the Company.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial for the revenue column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of 0.44 million 2017: 0.45 million, being the greater of: 5% of the of the Company and effectiveness of controls, including controls and revenue return on ordinary activities before taxation and our reporting changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work threshold.
Reporting threshold Our application of materiality An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the being clearly trivial.
audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.44m 2017: 0.40m, which Materiality is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 8.73 million 2017: 7.95 million, which is 1% of equity shareholders funds.
We believe Other information that equity shareholders funds provides us with materiality aligned to The other information comprises the information included in the annual the key measurement of the Companys performance.
report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the of the Companys overall control environment, our judgement was other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements 29 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance continued Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Jupiter European Opportunities Trust PLC continued or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine records and returns: or whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work not made: or we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our Responsibilities of directors responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of out on page 26, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true following conditions: and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 26 the free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible and understandable and provides the information necessary for for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend obtained in the audit: or to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Audit committee reporting set out on pages 21 and 22 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit statements committee: orr Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, Governance Code set out on page 19 the parts of the directors whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the Opinions on other matters prescribed by the basis of these financial statements.
Companies Act 2006 Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through the information given in the strategic report and the directors designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond report for the financial year for which the financial statements are appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and the strategic report and directors report have been prepared in management.
accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Our approach was as follows: Matters on which we are required to report by exception We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its frameworks that are applicable to the Company and determined environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified that the most significant are IFRS, the Companies Act 2006, AIC material misstatements in the strategic report or directors report.
SORP, the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code and Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our We understood how the Company is complying with those opinion: frameworks through discussions with the Audit Committee and Company Secretary and review of the Companys documented adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns policies and procedures.
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 30 JUPITER EUROPEAN OPPORTUNITIES TRUST PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Report of the Directors & Governance continued Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Jupiter European Opportunities Trust PLC continued We assessed the susceptibility of the Companys financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the key risks impacting the financial statements.
We identified fraud risks with respect to the incomplete or inaccurate income recognition through incorrect classification of special dividends.
Further discussion of our approach is set out in the section on key audit matters above.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved review of the reporting to the directors with respect to the application of the documented policies and procedures and review of the financial statements to ensure compliance with the reporting requirements of the Company.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed as auditors by the Company as part of the initial listing process and signed an engagement letter in 2000 to audit the financial statements for the period ending 31 May 2001 and subsequent financial periods.
Our appointment was subsequently ratified at the first annual general meeting of the Company held in 2001.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 18 years, covering the years ending 31 May 2001 to 31 May 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company and we remain independent of the Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Susan J Dawe Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Edinburgh 28 September 2018 31
