90 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Just Group plc 1.
OUR OPINION IS UNMODIFIED OVERVIEW We have audited the financial statements of Just Group plc the Materiality: 6.7m 2017: 11.5m Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise: Group financial 4.0% of normalised Group IFRS profit before tax The Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated statements as a whole 2017: 0.7% of Group net assets statement of changes in equity, Consolidated statement of financial Coverage 94% of Group IFRS loss before tax position, Consolidated statement of cash flows, and the related notes, 2017: 98% of Group net assets including the accounting policies in note 1: and the statement of financial position of the Company, statement of Emphasis of matter Capital changes in equity of the Company, statement of cash flows of the Company and related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1 Key audit matters vs 2017 of the Company financial statements.
Event driven New: Brexit In our opinion: uncertainties the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Recurring risks New: Going concern Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Group of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Valuation of insurance accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted liabilities by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Valuation of loans secured by the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared residential mortgages in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Valuation of reinsurance assets the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the and deposits received from requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group insurers financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Recurring risks Recoverability of Parent of the Parent Companys investment in Basis for opinion subsidiaries We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
EMPHASIS OF MATTER CAPITAL described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a We draw attention to note 34 to the financial statements which notes that sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is the Groups capital position can be adversely affected by a number of consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
factors, in particular factors that erode the Groups capital resources and or which impact the quantum of risk to which the Group is exposed.
Whilst We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders in 2006.
The period the publication of PS31 18 has significantly reduced the uncertainty, note of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 13 financial years ended 34 further notes that there is still some uncertainty as regards areas for 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and further PRA consultation and determination.
Note 34 further notes that we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical given that the Group continues to experience a high level of regulatory requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public activity and intense regulatory supervision, there is also the risk of PRA interest entities.
intervention, not limited to the aforementioned matters, which could negatively impact on the Groups capital position.
Note 34 further notes No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
that the Group plans to strengthen its capital position during 2019 in order to continue to write the anticipated levels of new business.
Our opinion is not modified in this regard.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS: INCLUDING OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 The risk Our response Going concern Disclosure completeness Our procedures included: The risk compared to the prior The financial statements explain how the Board has year has increased.
formed a judgement that it is appropriate to adopt the Capital assessment: going concern basis of preparation for the Group and We assessed the Groups capital forecasts, which, Refer to page 84 Directors Report Parent Company.
as disclosed in note 1.1, includes the need for capital and page 103 Note 1.1, financial issuances to support the writing of new business.
statement disclosures that set out That judgement is based on an evaluation of the In doing so we considered the impact of the PRAs the assessment undertaken by the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business PS31 18 Solvency II: Equity Release Mortgages Board and the rationale for using model and how those risks might affect the Groups published in December 2018, including the uncertainties the going concern assumption.
and Companys financial resources or ability to associated with its application.
We also reviewed PRA continue operations over a period of at least a year correspondence and met with the PRA to assess their In particular, that disclosure sets from the date of approval of the financial statements.
view as to the amount of Solvency II capital that is out that the Directors have likely to be required by the Group.
considered a scenario where the The Boards assessment is based on future projections Company ceases to write new of the level of excess Solvency II capital over We considered the terms of all the Groups financing business and continues to trade in requirements, which includes judgements over the arrangements, including both committed and run-off.
In a run-off scenario, the impact of regulatory requirements whether known uncommitted facilities, and assessed the likelihood going concern basis would or subject to change, future economic conditions and impacts arising from future capital issuances that continue to be applicable because and future management actions, including raising will be required to support the delivery of the Groups the Group would be continuing to new capital.
business plans and how these had been factored into trade with its existing business.
There is a risk that the judgements included in the assessment are inappropriate and do not include Benchmarking assumptions and our sector appropriate allowances for adverse scenarios or the experience: execution risk associated with future plans or do not We also assessed the forecasts and underlying take account of the potential actions of third parties, assumptions by reference to our knowledge of the including the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
business and general economic conditions and assessed the potential risk of management bias.
There are also less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as the impact of Brexit, which Sensitivity analysis: could result in a rapid reduction of available financial We challenged the Groups sensitivities applied to the resources.
forecasts by taking into account how these may be affected by the achievability of the Boards plans, The risk for our audit was whether or not those risks including potential capital raising, general economic were such that they amounted to a material conditions, increased regulatory capital requirements uncertainty that may have cast significant doubt about and the potential effects of Brexit, for example on the ability to continue as a going concern.
Had they house prices and interest rates.
In particular we been such, then that fact would have been required to considered the capital position of the Group under have been disclosed.
stress and without any capital issuances.
Disclosure quality Accounting analysis: Clear and full disclosure of the assessment undertaken We considered the possible circumstance of the Group by the Board and the rationale for using the going ceasing to write new business.
We considered it concern assumption, represents a key financial against the accounting standards criteria for the statement disclosure requirement.
non-going concern basis of accounting, being cessation of trading: and against generally accepted There is a risk that insufficient details are disclosed to practice in such circumstances.
allow a full understanding of the assessment undertaken by the Board.
Regulatory assessment: We met the PRA to hear their views on the Groups Solvency II capital forecasts and on the PRAs regulatory approach to the Group, including its powers to require actions of the Group.
Assessing transparency: We assessed the completeness and accuracy of the matters covered in the going concern disclosures by reference to the key matters considered by our procedures set out above.
Our results We found the going concern disclosure without any material uncertainty to be acceptable.
92 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued The risk Our response The impact on uncertainties due Unprecedented levels of uncertainty We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to to the United Kingdom exiting All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness of the consideration of the uncertainties arising from the European Union on our audit estimates, in particular as described in valuation of Brexit in planning and performing our audits.
Our insurance liabilities and valuation of loans secured by procedures included: Refer to page 36 principal risks, residential mortgages and related disclosures and the page 33 viability statement, page appropriateness of the going concern basis of Our Brexit knowledge We considered the Directors 60 Audit Committee Report, page preparation of the financial statements.
All of these assessment of Brexit-related sources of risk for the 103 accounting policy and pages depend on assessments of the future economic Groups business and financial resources compared 126 and 140 financial disclosures.
environment and the Groups future prospects and with our own understanding of the risks.
considered the Directors plans to take action to mitigate the risks.
In addition, we are required to consider the other Sensitivity analysis When addressing valuation of information presented in the Annual Report including insurance liabilities, valuation of loans secured by the principal risks disclosure and the viability residential mortgages and the appropriateness of the statement and to consider the Directors statement going concern basis of preparation of the financial that the Annual Report and financial statements taken statements and other areas that depend on as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and forecasts, we compared the Directors sensitivity provides the information necessary for shareholders to analysis to our assessment of the full range of assess the Groups position and performance, business reasonably possible scenarios resulting from Brexit model and strategy.
uncertainty and, where forecasts cash flows are required to be discounted, considered adjustments to Brexit is one of the most significant economic events discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.
for the UK and at the date of this report its effects are Assessing transparency As well as assessing subject to unprecedented levels of uncertainty of individual disclosures as part of our procedures on outcomes, with the full range of possible effects valuation of insurance liabilities, valuation of loans unknown.
secured by residential mortgages and the appropriateness of the going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements, we considered all of the Brexit related disclosures together, including those in the Strategic Report, comparing the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
Our results As reported under valuation of insurance liabilities, valuation of loans secured by residential mortgages and the appropriateness of the going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements, we found the resulting estimates and related disclosures of insurance liabilities, loans secured by residential mortgages and disclosures in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93 The risk Our response Valuation of insurance Subjective valuation: We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in liabilities The Group has significant insurance liabilities performing our procedures in this area.
Our procedures representing 78% 31 December 2017: 75% of the included: 17,274 million: Groups total liabilities.
This is an area that involves 2017: 16,633 million significant judgement over uncertain future outcomes, Control design and performance: mainly the ultimate total settlement value of Testing of the design, implementation and operating The risk compared to the prior long-term policyholder liabilities.
effectiveness of key controls over the processes to year is unchanged.
determine the valuation of the policyholder liabilities The Group is required to use judgement in the selection including the change management controls over the Refer to pages 58 to 59 Audit of key assumptions covering both operating actuarial models.
Committee Report, page 110 assumptions and economic assumptions.
Testing of the design, implementation and operating accounting policy and pages 130 effectiveness of the reconciliation controls to ensure to 133 financial disclosures.
The key operating assumptions are mortality completeness of data flows from policy determined by reference to the Groups own administration systems and data warehouses to the experience and expected levels of future mortality, actuarial models.
and the expected level of future expenses which is based on the expected future costs of administering Methodology choice: the underlying policies.
We have assessed the appropriateness of the methodology for selecting assumptions and The key economic assumption is credit risk, based on calculating the policyholder liabilities.
This included: the Groups view of expected future investment applying our understanding of developments in the defaults.
business and the impact of changes in methodology on the selection of assumptions: The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk comparing changes in methodology to our assessment, we determined that the valuation of expectations derived from market experience: and insurance liabilities has a high degree of estimation evaluating the analysis of the movements in uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable insurance liabilities during the year, including outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial consideration of whether the movements were in line statements as a whole, and possibly many times that with the methodology and assumptions adopted.
The financial statements note 21 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
Benchmarking assumptions and sector experience: Evaluating the Groups historic mortality data used to Calculation error and data capture prepare the Groups mortality experience analysis, The Group uses complex actuarial models to calculate together with industry data on expectations of future policyholder liabilities.
There is a risk that the modelling mortality improvements and assessing whether this does not appropriately reflect the model specifications supports the assumptions adopted.
and or the product features due to incomplete data Assessing the credit risk assumptions and input into the model and or unauthorised or erroneous appropriateness of the Groups methodology used to changes to the models.
determine the liquidity premium applied to the risk-free rate, by reference to industry practice and our expectations derived from market experience.
Assessing whether the expense assumptions reflect the expected future costs of administering the underlying policies by analysing current year unit costs, considering the expected future level of expense inflation and testing the appropriateness of the Groups best estimate of future cost savings based on management actions and forecast budgets.
Independent reperformance: Using our own valuation models to calculate the insurance liability balance for a sample of policies across the reserves and comparing to the balances recorded by the Group.
Assessing transparency: Considering whether the Groups disclosures in relation to the assumptions used in the calculation of insurance liabilities appropriately represent the sensitivities of these assumptions to alternative scenarios and inputs.
Our results We found the valuation of insurance liabilities to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
94 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued The risk Our response Valuation of loans secured by Subjective valuation We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in residential mortgages The loans are measured at fair value determined performing our procedures in this area.
Our procedures through projecting future discounted cash flows using included: 7,192 million: internally developed models.
The Group is required to 2017: 6,833 million use judgement in the selection of key assumptions in Control design and performance: determining the projected cash flows and in Testing of the design, implementation and operating The risk compared to the prior determining the liquidity premium applied to the effectiveness of key controls over the processes to year has increased.
determine the valuation of loans secured by residential mortgages including the change Refer to page 59 Audit Committee The key assumptions include property price inflation, management controls over the actuarial models.
Report, page 109 accounting property price volatility, mortality determined by Testing of the design, implementation and operating policy and pages 122 and 126 reference to the Groups own experience and expected effectiveness of the reconciliation controls to ensure financial disclosures.
levels of future mortality and the liquidity premium completeness of data flows from policy added to the swap curve.
administration systems and data warehouses to the actuarial models.
The risk significance has increased compared to the prior year given the increased uncertainty with respect Benchmarking assumptions and sector experience to the selection of long-term property related Evaluating the appropriateness of the property price assumptions used in the valuation of loans secured by inflation assumption used within the valuation residential mortgages.
process by assessing the expected property price inflation with reference to market data and industry The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk benchmarks.
assessment, we determined that the valuation of loans Assessing the reasonableness of the property price secured by residential mortgages has a high degree of volatility assumption by considering historic volatility estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of in property prices and comparing the assumption to reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for industry benchmarks.
the financial statements as a whole, and possibly Evaluating the Groups historic mortality data used to many times that amount.
The financial statements prepare the Groups mortality experience analysis, note 15 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the together with industry data on expectations of future Group.
mortality improvements and assessing whether this supports the assumptions adopted.
Calculation error and data capture Assessing the appropriateness of the liquidity The Group uses complex actuarial models to calculate premium applied to the risk-free rate, by reference to the valuation of loans secured by residential industry practice and our expectations derived from mortgages.
There is a risk that the modelling does not market experience.
appropriately reflect the model specifications and or the product features due to incomplete data input into Independent reperformance: the model and or unauthorised or erroneous changes Using our own valuation models to value the loans to the models.
secured by residential mortgages balance for a sample of policies and comparing to the balances recorded by the Group.
Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the valuation of loans secured by residential mortgages, in particular the sensitivity of the valuations adopted to alternative outcomes.
Our results We found the valuation of loans secured by residential mortgages to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95 The risk Our response Valuation of reinsurance assets Accounting treatment Our procedures included: and deposits received from The Group needs to determine, based on the insurers underlying cash flows and complex treaty terms Accounting analysis: whether the deposits received from reinsurers should Evaluating the classification of deposits from Reinsurance asset be accounted for as insurance contracts or as financial reinsurers under relevant accounting standards as 4,239 million: liabilities, which is dependent upon whether there is a insurance contracts or financial liabilities based on 2017: 5,285 million transfer of significant insurance risk.
The classification the underlying cash flows and terms of the treaties.
of the treaty impacts the valuation basis applied.
Deposits received from insurers We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in 3,680 million: Subjective valuation performing the following procedures in this area.
2017: 4,556 million Reinsurance assets and deposits received from insurers are measured at fair value.
The valuation of Methodology implementation: The risk compared to the prior the reinsurance assets is sensitive to movements in Comparing the methodology applied for the year is unchanged.
mortality and economic assumptions and the valuation of the reinsurance assets and deposits valuation of the deposits received from reinsurers is received from reinsurers to confirm that it is Refer to pages 58 to 59 Audit driven by the discount rate applied to the related cash appropriate and is consistent with the terms and Committee Report, page 110 flows.
The calculation of these fair values involves conditions set out in the reinsurance treaties.
accounting policy and pages 130 significant judgement over uncertain future outcomes.
Expectation vs outcome: The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk Assessing the Groups analysis of the movements in assessment, we determined that the valuation of reinsurance assets and deposits received from reinsurance assets and deposits received from insurers reinsurers liabilities with reference to the movement has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a in policyholder liabilities driven by changes in potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than mortality and economic assumptions, increase in our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
new business and recorded claims.
Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the assumptions used in the calculation of reinsurance assets and deposits received from reinsurers, in particular the sensitivities of these assumptions to alternative scenarios and inputs.
Our results We found the valuation of reinsurance assets and deposits received from reinsurers to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Recoverability of Parent Low risk, high value Our procedures included: Companys investment in The carrying amount of the Parent Companys subsidiaries investments in subsidiaries represents 91% 2017: 91% Tests of detail: of the Companys total assets.
Their recoverability is Comparing the carrying amount of a sample of the Parent specific risk not at a high risk of significant misstatement or subject highest value investments, representing 100% 2017: 1,343 million: to significant judgement.
However, due to their 100% of the total investment balance with the 2017: 1,135 million materiality in the context of the Parent Company relevant subsidiaries draft financial statements to financial statements, this is considered to be the area identify whether their net assets, being an The risk compared to the prior that had the greatest effect on our overall Parent approximation of their minimum recoverable year is unchanged.
amount, were in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether those subsidiaries have Refer to page 60 Audit Committee historically been profit-making.
Report, page 148 accounting Considering alternative bases for the calculation of policy and page 148 financial the recoverable amount, including through disclosures.
discounted cash flow methodologies and market based price multiples.
Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the audit work performed on that sample of those subsidiaries and considering the results of that work on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
Our results We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
96 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued 4.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE components.
The work on seven 2017: seven components, including the SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT audit of the Parent Company, was performed by the Group and Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 6.7 component teams based at the Companys offices in London and Reigate.
million 2017: 11.5 million determined with reference to a benchmark of group IFRS profit before tax, normalised to exclude the effects of The work on four of the seven components 2017: none of the seven short-term investment fluctuations and economic changes, of which it components was performed by component auditors and the rest, represents 4% 2017: 0.7% of group net assets.
including the audit of the Parent Company, was performed by the Group team.
Meetings were held with these component auditors.
At these We have changed the benchmark for setting materiality from net assets meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more to a normalised IFRS profit before tax measure as the Groups merger and detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then integration activities are largely complete and therefore we consider that performed by the component auditor.
a profit based measure is more appropriate.
Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 6 million 2017: 8 million in line with component materiality, Normalised Group IFRS determined by reference to company net assets, of which it represents Group materiality profit before tax 0.6% 2017: 0.8%.
6.7m 2017: 11.5m 166.5m 2017: Group 6.7m We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected net assets: 1,740.5m Whole financial identified misstatements exceeding 0.34 million 2017: 0.58 million, in statements materiality addition to other identified misstatements below that threshold that 2017: 11.5m warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Range of materiality at Of the Groups 27 2017: 28 reporting components, we subjected seven 7 components 2m 6m 2017: seven to full scope audits for group purposes.
2017: 8.0m The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated below.
For the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatements within these.
Normalised Group IFRS 0.34m Misstatements reported profit before tax to the Audit Committee The Group audit team approved component materiality, which was set Group materiality 2017: 0.58m between 2 million and 6 million 31 December 2017: 8 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the Group revenue Group profit before tax Group total assets 99% 93% 94% 2017: 99% 2017: 96% 2017: 96% Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 99 96 96 Residual components 99 93 94 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97 5.
GOING CONCERN Directors Remuneration Report The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Group audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Act 2006.
Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going We draw attention to the disclosure in the viability statement that the concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial Group plans to strengthen its capital position during 2019 and beyond in statements the going concern period.
order to continue to write new business and that if adequate capital is not available to fund new business, the scope of the Groups business would Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors change.
Other than that, based on the knowledge we acquired during our conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we attention to in relation to: cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events the directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 33 may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of reference to a facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business material uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: Group and the Company will continue in operation.
the principal risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and We identified going concern as a key audit matter see section 3 of this the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have report.
Based on the work described in our response to that key audit assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so matter, we are required to report to you if: and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or that basis for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of assumptions.
the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 84 is Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Other than the matter referred to above, we have nothing to report in this respect.
Other than that in a scenario where the Company ceases to write new business and continues to trade in run-off, and the going concern basis Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the continues to be applicable because the Group would be continuing to knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we cannot trade with its existing business, which we draw attention to in section 3, predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may we have nothing to report in these respects.
result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report 6.
OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the longer-term viability.
Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, Corporate governance disclosures accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly We are required to report to you if: stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us Strategic Report and Directors Report to the Audit Committee.
Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement and the Directors Report: does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 provisions of the UK in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the We have nothing to report in these respects.
98 JUST GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued 7.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION financial statements including financial reporting legislation including Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our related companies legislation and taxation legislation, we assessed the opinion: extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent procedures on the related financial statement items.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through accounting records and returns: or the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Groups licence to certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not operate.
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have made: or such an effect: regulatory capital and liquidity, recognising the financial we have not received all the information and explanations we require for and regulated nature of the Groups activities.
Auditing standards limit the our audit.
required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the Directors and other management and We have nothing to report in these respects.
inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES Directors responsibilities Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 88, the that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements financial statements, even though we have properly planned and including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with Auditors responsibilities all laws and regulations.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 9.
THE PURPOSE OF OUR AUDIT WORK AND TO WHOM WE OWE OUR whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to RESPONSIBILITIES issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company taken on the basis of the financial statements.
and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements through Daniel Cazeaux Senior Statutory Auditor discussion with the Directors and other management as required by for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and Chartered Accountants legal correspondence.
We communicated identified laws and regulations 15 Canada Square throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of nonLondon compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the E14 5GL Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level.
14 March 2019 The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
