FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Just Eat plc Report on the audit of the financial statements We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company Opinion in accordance with the ethical requirements that are In our opinion: relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs the financial statements of Just Eat plc the Parent Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the the Group financial statements have been properly Group or the Parent Company.
prepared in accordance with International Financial We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the issufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for European Union: ouropinion.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Summary of our audit approach by the European Union and as applied in accordance Key audit matters with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies the impairment review of goodwill and intangible Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, assets at the Australia and New Zealand ANZ, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Mexico MX, Spain ES and Italy IT cash-generating units CGUs : and We have audited the financial statements which comprise: tax uncertainties in relation to the ongoing Danish the consolidated income statement: transfer pricing investigation.
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: These key audit matters are consistent with the prior year.
the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets: Materiality the consolidated and Parent Company statements of The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 7.5 million.
This represents 4.3% of changes in equity: theGroups underlying earnings before interest, the consolidated and Parent Company cash flow taxation, depreciation and amortisation uEBITDA statements: and of173.9million and 7.4% of statutory profit before taxation of 101.7 million.
the related notes 1 to 30 including the accounting policies.
Scoping The financial reporting framework that has been applied The most significant component of the Group is the UK in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted operation which accounts for 49% of revenue and 109% by the European Union and, as regards the Parent of the uEBITDA.
The Group audit team directly performs Company financial statements, as applied in accordance the audit of the UK business.
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Full scope audits were also performed for the Canadian, Basis for opinion Australian & New Zealand, French and Danish operations We conducted our audit in accordance with International for the year ended 31 December 2018 by component teams.
Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are These full scope audits represent the principal business further described in the auditors responsibilities for the units and account for 87% of the Groups revenue of audit of the financial statements section of our report.
779.5 million, 106% of profit before taxation of 101.7million and 101% of uEBITDA of 173.9 million.
86 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing We have reviewed the Directors statement on page 21 about whether they material to report, add or draw considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in attention to in respect of preparing the financial statements and their identification of any material thesematters.
uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over aperiod of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including the Groups considerations on page 22 regarding the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they material to report, add or draw were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, attention to in respect of including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment thesematters.
ofthe Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention toin relation to: the disclosures on pages 20 and 28 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 20 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 21 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications orassumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued Recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets Key audit matter As described in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 54, and Notes 12 and 13 to the description consolidated financial statements, determining whether the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets is recoverable is a key judgement and contains the potential for management bias.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group balance sheet shows goodwill of 771 million 2017: 544.9 million and intangible assets of 134.4 million 2017: 94.5 million.
During the year, the Group completed the acquisition of Hungryhouse Holdings Limited HungryHouse and Flyt Limited Flyt, resulting in the recognition of 236.6 million of additional goodwill.
Our key audit matter is focused on the goodwill and intangibles impairment review of ANZ 260 million, MX 21 million, ES 59 million and IT 43 million.
Following the impairment in ANZ in the prior year, management has started the roll-out of a delivery service.
This requires investment in the near term, which is included within the cash flow forecasts.
Management has produced a forecast model up to year eight 2026 and has computed a terminal value from that date.
Whilst there is evidence of success of the delivery model in particular from the Canadian business, but also from the early roll-out zones in ANZ, there is significant revenue growth expected in the cash flows in the impairment model and themodel is sensitive to changes in assumptions.
Note 12 to the financial statements includes further disclosure as to the impact of a reasonably possible change in assumptions.
The values of goodwill for ES and IT substantially lower than ANZ, but these CGUs are also forecast to increase their delivery offering in the near term, which requires investment.
Under areasonably possible change in assumptions to the forecasts, potential impairments have been identified, as shown in Note 12.
Consistent with prior periods, the MX CGU has been identified as having a potential risk of future impairment, due to the significant growth required in the short-term forecasts before along-term growth rate is applied.
How the scope of In order to address this key audit matter we challenged the assumptions used by management our audit in the ANZ, MX, ES, and IT impairment models.
As part of our work, we: respondedto the identified and assessed the design and implementation of key controls: key auditmatter checked the mechanical accuracy of the underlying valuation models: agreed the key assumptions to Board-approved budgets and business plans: understood and challenged whether the cash flows are compliant with the methodology set out in IAS 36 Impairment of Assets: challenged the sensitivity analysis run by management by comparison to recent performance in that CGU and other CGUs with similar characteristics: obtained input from our valuation specialists to assess the country-specific WACC rate calculations and long-term growth rates, by testing the inputs to the calculation to external sources and macroeconomic data: assessed and challenged managements forecasting through comparison against other markets, growth pattern of established markets and external data on the wider market where available: and in the case of the MX CGU, considered managements available evidence of fair value less cost of disposal.
We also considered whether the sensitivity disclosures provided for these CGUs represent reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
Key observations We have assessed the impairment calculations for goodwill and intangible assets for ANZ, ES and IT.
Based on the benchmarking performed in relation to other markets within the Just Eat Group Canada, UK and Denmark and evidence from the early delivery roll-out zones, we are satisfied that the assumptions applied within the valuation models are reasonable.
We note that there is significant assumed growth in the cash flows before a perpetuity is applied, meaning that the forecasts are sensitive to changes in assumptions, as well as execution risk.
The sensitivity disclosures provided for these CGUs illustrate reasonably possible changes in key assumptions, and are appropriately reflected in Note 12.
88 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Tax uncertainties in relation to the ongoing Danish transfer pricing investigation Key audit matter The total provision against uncertain tax positions in the current year is 19.9 million description 2017:17.4 million.
Our key audit matter is focused on the element of the provision relating to an ongoing transfer pricing investigation by the Danish tax authorities, where there is significant judgement.
As set out in Note 10 and in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 112, a local transfer pricing audit was performed by the Danish tax authorities, resulting in a formal notice of assessment being issued in January 2018.
The Group has assessed the relevant legislation, regulations and compliance obligations and disagrees with the assessment issued and has lodged an appeal against it.
The Group, therefore, filed a Mutual Agreement Procedure MAP application in February 2018 through which the UK and Danish tax authorities will negotiate an agreement.
As at 31 December 2018, there has been no conclusion from the MAP process and therefore the Groups position is unchanged.
Determination of the tax provision is subject to inherent judgement and therefore also potential bias by management, in assessing the probable outflow of taxes that will be borne by the entity relating to this matter where the appeal process is ongoing.
The Groups accounting policy on taxation is on page 110 and the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty on page 100.
How the scope of We have performed the following procedures to address this key audit matter: our audit engaged our tax specialists to challenge the estimates and judgements used when responded to the calculating the associated provision, based on our knowledge of tax law: key audit matter identified and assessed the design and implementation of key controls: held discussions with management and its external advisers surrounding the status of the MAP process and confirmed that there have been no material developments in FY18: and recalculated the movement in the provision to determine whether the incremental interest and penalties were calculated appropriately.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosure.
Key observations Based on the limited progress made through MAP during the year, we consider that the total level of provision is within an acceptable range, based on the information currently available and the opinions received from managements experts.
We consider the disclosure to be appropriate at this stage.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements 7.5 million 2017: 5.4 million 7.4 million 2017: 2.2 million Materiality Basis for determining 4.3% of uEBITDA Materiality was determined on the basis of materiality the Parent Companys net assets, capped by Group materiality.
Rationale for the In 2018 we based our materiality judgement Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark benchmark applied on underlying EBITDA, the Groups main as the Parent Company is an investment alternative performance measure used holding company.
This represents 7.4% of statutory profit before taxation of 101.7 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.375 million 2017: 0.270 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The business is currently implementing a new ERP system which commenced in 2017 and is expected to complete in 2019.
As part of our audit, we assessed the design and implementation of general IT controls in relation the new ERP system and tested the roll-out in countries which were in scope for Group reporting.
As in the prior year, full scope audits were performed for the UK, Australian and New Zealand, Danish, French and Canadian operations for the year ended 31 December 2018 by component teams under the direction and supervision of the Group audit team.
In addition, Ireland, Spain and Italy were subject to a limited scope audit of specific account transactions and account balances by the Group audit team.
These items were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement at Group level.
These locations, along with the consolidation adjustments and UK holding companies, represent the principal business units and account for 761.4 million out of the 779.5 million of the Groups revenue, 186.5 million uEBITDA out of 173.9 million of the Groups uEBITDA, 782.4 million out of 801.5 million of the Groups net assets and 108.7 million of the Groups 101.7 million profit before taxation.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Revenue uEBITDA PBT Net assets m m m m UK 385.6 170.6 107.3 480.6 Australia and New Zealand 46.6 6.4 5.3 277.3 Canada 177.8 11.5 20.0 47.2 Denmark 26.3 10.1 9.5 8.9 France 37.1 6.2 6.0 27.0 Full scope audits 673.4 181.8 108.1 746.6 Revenue uEBITDA PBT Net assets m m m m Full audit 673.4 181.8 108.1 746.6 Limited scope procedures 88.0 4.7 0.6 35.8 Out of scope 18.1 12.6 7.0 19.1 Total 779.4 173.9 101.7 801.5 Our audit work at full scope entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 1.7 million to 7.4 million 2017: 0.6 million to 4.3 million.
We have maintained close supervision of component auditors throughout the audit process.
Planning meetings were held with all significant component teams prior to the commencement of the audit, whose purpose was to ensure sufficient level of understanding of the Groups business and a discussion of the significant risks and planned audit approach.
As in the prior year, senior members of the audit team visited the Australian and Canadian operations and performed specified audit procedures for the French and Danish components.
The audit visits were timed to enable us to be involved in the completion of detailed audit procedures as well as attending key meetings with component management and auditors.
In addition to our planned visits, we send detailed instructions to our component audit teams, include them in our team briefings and perform detailed reviews of the significant work papers.
We maintain close communication throughout the audit period and attend component close meetings to discuss all significant findings raised with financial management representatives from both the Group and the components.
90 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information We have nothing to report comprises the information included in the Annual Report other than the financial in respect of these matters.
statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs, website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: and the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team including significant component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations and IT regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for bias in the inherent judgements involved in the impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets: obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on thoselaws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Listing Rules as well as relevant provisions of pensions and tax legislation: and in addition, considering the nature of the Groups activities, we considered the reputation risk associated with non-compliance with data protection legislation as having a potential fundamental effect on the customer operations of the Group.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we focused on the inherent judgements involved in the impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets as a key audit matter.
The key audit matters section of our report explains this matter inmore detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks ofmaterial misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with tax authorities: in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course ofbusiness: and in relation to data protection legislation, making enquiries of the Group legal counsel about the Groups procedures for ensuring compliance with relevant provisions in countries in scope for the Group audit.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
92 Just Eat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Directors on 22 January 2010 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2009.
During 2018 the Company conducted an audit tender as described in the report by the Audit Committee.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is ten years, covering the years ending 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
William Touche Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 5 March 2019 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Just Eat plc 93
