FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report to the members of Overview KAZ Minerals PLC Materiality: $27m 2017: $20m 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Group financial 4.2% 2017: 3.4% of Group profit We have audited the financial statements of KAZ Minerals PLC statements as a whole before tax the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which Coverage 99% 2017: 99% of Group profit comprise the consolidated statement of total comprehensive before tax income, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of Key audit matters vs 2017 cash flows, consolidated statement of changes in equity, Company balance sheet, Company statement of cash flows and Company New risk Disclosures relating to statement of changes in equity, and the related notes, including Going concern the accounting policies in note 36.
1 Recurring risk Asset Valuation Bozymchak In our opinion: Bribery and Corruption the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Parent Company Investment impairment of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at specific risk 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: 1 In 2017, the risk regarding asset valuation related to the identification of impairment indicators for the Groups operating assets and the Koksay the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in development asset.
In 2018, the Aktogay and Bozshakol assets continued their accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as successful ramp up and the Koksay asset received external investment such that adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the focus of this key audit matter was the Bozymchak asset.
the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 15 May 2012.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the seven financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
114 114 KAZ Minerals Ann KAZ Minerals Annual R ual Repor eport and Accounts 2018 t and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Whilst the Group has made improvements to its internal controls over revenue recognition during 2018, the Groups processes for recording copper revenues remain manual in nature and involve a third party logistics organisation.
We continue to perform procedures over Revenue Recognition copper cathode and concentrate products, however, following the satisfactory results of our 2017 audit and our planned audit procedures for 2018 to address the risk requiring less time and effort relative to other audit areas, we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and our findings from those procedures in order that the Companys members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
These matters were addressed, and our findings are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Disclosures related Disclosure quality Our procedures included: to Going concern Note 2 a to the financial statements Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging the appropriateness of Refer to page 90 explains how the Directors have formed key assumptions in the cash flow projections including commodity Audit Committee a judgement that use of the going concern prices, production costs, inflation, foreign exchange, production Report and page 126 basis is appropriate in preparing the volumes, committed and other planned capital expenditure, financial disclosures financial statements of the Group applying our sector knowledge and experience based on historical and parent company.
production information, internal mine plans and project plans, together with market and other externally available information.
That judgement is based on an evaluation of the inherent risks to the Groups and Sensitivity analysis: We considered sensitivities over the level of Companys business model and how available financial resources indicated by the Groups financial those risks might affect the Groups and forecasts taking account of reasonably possible but not Companys financial resources or ability unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these to continue operations over a period of risks individually and collectively.
at least a year from the date of approval Mathematical accuracy: Checking the mathematical accuracy of of the financial statements.
the cash flow projections and recalculating the forecast covenant The risks most likely to adversely affect the calculations based on the terms of the Groups borrowing facilities.
Groups and Companys available financial Funding assessment: Challenging the Directors assumption resources over this period were: that a new $600m finance facility would be available in the first The ability of the Group to raise a new half of 2019 by examining correspondence and supporting $600m financing facility or alternative documentation with prospective providers, assessing the sources of financing to support the Companys existing lending arrangements, credit rating Aktogay expansion.
and existing loan and covenant terms.
The ability to defer planned capital Evaluating Directors intent: We evaluated the achievability expenditure should the new financing of the actions the Directors consider they would take to defer not be obtained.
planned expenditure should new financing not be obtained.
We examined key contracts relating to the projects marked for In addition, there is inherent estimation deferral to search for clauses that could result in deferral of capital uncertainty in the assumptions used in expenditure being prohibited or significant penalties being levied.
the Group and Companys business model, We enquired of operational management regarding the feasibility particularly in respect of copper pricing.
and possible consequences of deferral.
The risk for our audit was whether or not Assessing transparency: We considered the appropriateness of those risks were such that they amounted relevant disclosures, including both the going concern disclosure to a material uncertainty that may have in note 2 of the financial statements and also the commentary cast significant doubt about the ability to elsewhere in the annual report on the timing and scope of continue as a going concern.
Had they the future growth projects and the need for financing to been such, then that fact would have progress these.
been required to have been disclosed.
Our findings We found the Directors plans to raise additional finance and or defer capital expenditure to mitigate any shortfall to be feasible and their judgement that there is no material uncertainty to be disclosed to be balanced, and that the disclosure in note 2 a to the financial statements is proportionate.
com 115 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED The risk Our response Asset valuation Forecast based valuation Our procedures included: Bozymchak The carrying value of the Bozymchak Benchmarking assumptions: We challenged the appropriateness Carrying Value asset, relating to the Companys mine in of key assumptions underlying the discounted cash flows including of CGU $84m Kyrgyzstan, having previously been impaired commodity prices, production costs, foreign exchange, production 2017: $110m in 2014 down to its recoverable amount, volume, capital expenditure, country risk and discount rates, and is sensitive to changes in key assumptions, applying our sector knowledge and experience based on historical Impairment circumstances or changes in expectations production information and internal mine plans, together with charge $20m of the assets performance.
market and other externally available information.
2017: nil During the period an impairment indicator Our valuation expertise: Our valuation specialists assisted us Refer to page 90 was identified following the loss of a second in assessing the appropriateness of the discount rates used.
Audit Committee appeal for the refund of $16m historical Report, page 163 Sensitivity analysis: We evaluated the sensitivity of the outcomes VAT incurred during construction.
accounting policy to reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions, primarily and page 129 The Groups impairment test determined the impact of lower copper prices, and a higher discount rate.
financial the recoverable amount on a fair value less Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures disclosures.
costs to sell basis using a discounted cash about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment flow model, and an impairment charge to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the of $20m was recognised in 2018. valuation of the asset.
As part of our risk assessment, we Our findings determined that the estimated recoverable We found the relevant risks to have been adequately reflected in amount of the CGU had a degree of either the discount rate or the cash flows.
We found the assumptions estimation uncertainty with a potential range overall, and the resulting estimated fair value less costs to sell basis and of reasonable outcomes greater than our the impairment charge, to be balanced.
materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
In conducting our final work, and following the impairment, we reassessed the degree of estimation uncertainty to be less than materiality.
The financial statements note 3 disclose the sensitivity analysis prepared by the Group.
Bribery and Effects of irregularities: Our procedures included: corruption The Groups business involves mining Policy assessment: We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups activities in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures including Transparency Internationals Corruption evaluating the tone set by the Board and by senior management, Perceptions Index 2018 and our own the implementation and oversight thereof across the Group and experience indicates that corruption the Groups externally managed whistleblowing programme.
risks remain significant in both countries.
Controls design and operation: Assessing the design and operating Significant amounts of expenditure continue effectiveness of the Groups controls over the selection of suppliers to be incurred on the major development and the process over acknowledging acceptance of projects, existing and new projects including services equipment provided by suppliers.
payments in respect of social projects.
Test of detail: Selecting a sample of transactions and journals across In addition, companies in the mining sector the Group in particular relating to third party suppliers and or cash are inherently at higher risk from bribery payments, that at face value appeared as though they might have and corruption due to the significant level been outside the normal course of business including those with of government regulation and their government agencies or officials, enquiry of senior management procurement profile.
about these transactions and validating such explanations given by inspecting related documentation to investigate the nature and This could result in material losses to the evaluate the business rationale for the transactions or events, Group, or potential non-compliance with taking into account our experience of mining and other laws and regulations which might result in industries in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
possible penalties and material improper payments not being identified or Our findings appropriately disclosed.
The results of our procedures were satisfactory and we did not identify any instances of improper payments or indications of bribery or corruption 2017 audit findings: none identified.
116 116 KAZ Minerals Ann KAZ Minerals Annual R ual Repor eport and Accounts 2018 t and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The risk Our response Parent Company Accounting Judgement: Our procedures included: risk: Investment The parent Companys investment in Our sector experience: Performing our own search for indicators in subsidiaries subsidiaries has been impaired in the past.
of impairment by analysing the performance of the Groups $4.2bn: 2017: In 2017 with the successful ramp up of operational cash generating units and evaluating changes in analysts $4.2bn the Groups projects and improved copper long-term expectations of commodity prices in particular copper.
prices, $840m of previous impairments Refer to page 90 Our sector experience: Challenging the Groups assumption that were reversed.
Audit Committee the share price decline did not represent an impairment indicator Report, page 170 Following the announcement of the planned by considering the key drivers for the share price decline and accounting policy Baimskaya acquisition in August 2018 the comparing it to share price movements of market competitors.
and financial Companys share price declined significantly Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of the investments disclosures.
and as at the year end the Groups market with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheets used for Group capitalisation was lower than the carrying consolidation purposes to identify whether their net assets, being value of the parent Companys investments an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were in the Group.
There is significant judgement in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether those in assessing whether these conditions subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.
Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed for The Directors considered that there was no group audit purposes on those subsidiaries and considering the impairment trigger, as the share price decline results of that work on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
during the period was not reflective of a Our findings decline in value of the underlying assets.
In determining whether an impairment indicator existed, there is room Consequently they did not perform a for judgement and we found that within that, the Groups judgement detailed impairment review in respect to be balanced.
of the carrying amount of the Companys investment in subsidiaries.
com 117 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED profit before tax Group materiality 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview $642m $27m of the scope of our audit 2017: $580m 2017: $20m Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at $27m $27m 2017: $20m, determined with reference to a benchmark Whole financial of Group profit before tax of $642m, of which it represents 4.2% statements materiality 2017: $20m 2017: $580m, 3.4%.
Materiality for the Company financial statements as a whole was set at $21m 2017: $16m, determined with reference to $24m component materiality set by the group audit team.
This is lower Range of materiality at 13 components $0.45m-$24m than the materiality we would otherwise have determined by 2017: $0.45m to $16m reference to total assets, and represents 0.5% of the Companys total assets 2017: 0.4%.
$1.3m We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected Misstatements reported Group profit before tax to the audit committee or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding $1.3m Group materiality 2017: $1m 2017:$1.0m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Group revenue Group profit before tax Of the Groups 37 2017: 37 reporting components, we absolute subjected 13 2017:13 to full scope audits for Group purposes.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for 1 1 the percentages illustrated opposite.
2 1 For the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
99% 99% 98 99 99 99 2017: 98% 2017: 99% The group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from $0.45m to $24m 2017: $0.45m to $16m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on four of the 13 components 2017: 4 of the 13 components was Group total assets performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the Company, was performed by the group team.
5 The group team visited all four Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan 2 component teams on three 2017: three separate occasions to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference meetings Full scope for Group audit were also held with these component auditors frequently purposes 2018 95% throughout the year.
At these visits and meetings, the findings Full scope for Group audit 98 95 purposes 2017 reported to the group team were discussed in more detail, and any 2017: 98% Residual components further work required by the group team was then performed by the component auditor.
118 118 KAZ Minerals Ann KAZ Minerals Annual R ual Repor eport and Accounts 2018 t and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Strategic report and Directors report The Directors have prepared the financial statements on Based solely on our work on the other information: the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic the Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as report and the Directors report: they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial in our opinion the information given in those reports for the position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least with the Companies Act 2006. a year from the date of approval of the financial statements Directors remuneration report the going concern period.
In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material Companies Act 2006. uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability that in this audit report.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw as subsequent events, including Brexit, may result in outcomes attention to in relation to: that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the Directors confirmation within the Strategic report on page the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material 65 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its Group and the Company will continue in operation.
business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: We identified the disclosures relating to going concern as a key the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and audit matter see section 3 of this report.
Based on the work explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and described in our response to that key audit matter, we are the Directors explanation in the Directors viability statement of required to report to you if: how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation period they have done so and why they considered that period to the Directors statement in Note 2 to the financial statements to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing twelve months from the date of approval of the financial attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
statements: or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
111 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context We have nothing to report in these respects.
of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as 5.
We have nothing to report on the other subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent information in the Annual Report with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, The Directors are responsible for the other information presented the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
com 119 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Corporate governance disclosures Auditors responsibilities We are required to report to you if: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material we have identified material inconsistencies between the misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and understandable and provides the information necessary for UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error business model and strategy: or and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they the section of the annual report describing the work of the could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance website at www.
Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven Irregularities ability to detect provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably the Listing Rules for our review.
be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements We have nothing to report in these respects.
from our general commercial and sector experience, through 6.
We have nothing to report on the other discussion with the Directors and other management as required matters on which we are required to report by auditing standards, and discussed with the Directors and other by exception management the policies and procedures regarding compliance Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws if, in our opinion: and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been communication from the group to component audit teams of received from branches not visited by us: or relevant laws and regulations identified at group level.
the parent Company financial statements and the part of The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not statements varies considerably.
in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law affect the financial statements including financial reporting are not made: or legislation including related companies legislation, distributable we have not received all the information and explanations we profits legislation, and taxation legislation.
We assessed the require for our audit.
extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations 7.
Respective responsibilities where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material Directors responsibilities effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 112, instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial the Groups license to operate.
We identified the following areas statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair as those most likely to have such an effect: health and safety, antiview: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable bribery and corruption, employment law and Kazakhstan and the preparation of financial statements that are free from material Kyrgyzstan mining regulations, recognising the nature of the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group Groups activities.
Auditing standards limit the required audit and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and regulations to enquiry of the Directors and other management using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Further detail in respect of bribery and corruption is set out in the key audit matter disclosures in section 2 of this report.
120 120 KAZ Minerals Ann KAZ Minerals Annual R ual Repor eport and Accounts 2018 t and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement by the Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report, and the further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with the terms agreed with the Company, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Juliette Lowes for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 20 February 2019 www www.
