Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Basis for opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
In our opinion: Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Kier Group plcs Group financial statements and Company Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements financial statements the financial statements give a true section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for affairs as at 30 June 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash our opinion.
flows for the year then ended: Independence the Group financial statements have been properly prepared We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as the Company financial statements have been properly applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit Framework, and applicable law : and services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as Other than those disclosed in the Risk Management and Audit regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Committee report and note 3 within the Financial Statements, we IAS Regulation.
have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 30 June 2018: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity, and the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 6.8 million 2017: 6.3 million, based on 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations excluding non-underlying items.
MATERIALITY Overall Company materiality: 4.9 million 2017: 4.9 million, based on the lower of component materiality and 1% of total assets.
We have conducted audit work across all five of the Groups divisions and achieved coverage over 90% AUDIT SCOPE 2017: 95% of Group revenues.
Valuation of land and properties Group.
AREAS OF Accounting for long-term contracts including profit recognition, work in progress and provisioning Group.
FOCUS Accounting for McNicholas acquisition Group.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industries in which it operates and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, pensions and UK tax legislation, the Health and Safety Executive legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to overseas operations.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, discussing compliance with internal legal counsel, review of correspondence with external legal advisors, review of external press releases and enquiries of management.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 111 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 111 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc continued We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We reviewed the property-specific development appraisals supporting Group the carrying values and challenged the key assumptions underlying Valuation of land and development properties these appraisals as follows: Refer to page 79 Risk Management and Audit Committee report, page 127 accounting policy and page 158 notes.
Residential We obtained managements expected build cost per square Inventory in the Residential and Property divisions is stated at the foot and compared it to the build costs for similar units on lower of cost and net realisable value i. e. the forecast selling price other sites and where there were differences, validated less the remaining costs to build and sell.
An assessment of the explanations against third-party confirmations including net realisable value of inventory is carried out at each balance sheet quantity surveyor cost estimates, correspondence with date and is dependent upon managements estimate of forecast suppliers or comparable properties on other sites.
selling prices and build costs by reference to current prices, which may require significant judgement.
We challenged management on their intention to develop these sites.
The Residential division comprises the Groups land held for We challenged managements forecast sales prices by residential development of 45.1m 2017: 39.0m and residential comparing them to supporting third-party evidence from work in progress of 124.6m 2017: 132.7m where building work managements external sales agents and list prices of has commenced.
comparable assets as published by estate agents and In particular, we focused our work on those sites with a value of used our own internal valuation experts to assess the 60.2m 2017: 46.7m where there is no immediate intention reasonableness of price assumptions.
of development as there is a heightened risk that they are valued Where management has relied on experts, we ensured that the above their recoverable amount.
Therefore a change in the Groups third parties were suitably qualified, independent and objective forecast estimate of sales price or build cost could have a material professionals.
impact on the carrying value of inventories in the Groups financial statements.
Property We reconciled the development appraisals to the WIP summary: The Property division comprises the Groups land held for We interviewed the Development Manager responsible for a commercial development of 3.0m 2017: 3.2m and mixed use sample of sites to understand the status of the development commercial and residential development work in progress of 41.7m and challenged the key judgements and inputs.
We obtained, where applicable, third-party independent In particular, we focused our work on testing the recoverable amount comparable evidence to support the rental and yield rates of work in progress in commercial and residential developments as adopted in the appraisal and used our own internal valuation this could have a material impact on the carrying value of inventories experts to assess the reasonableness of these assumptions.
held in the Groups financial statements.
We obtained where applicable independent construction quotes from tender documents, surveyor reports or similar.
We obtained confirmation from external sources for any other applicable items to the appraisal.
We obtained confirmation over legal title and Planning Consent where relevant.
Where management has relied on experts, we ensured that the third parties were suitably qualified, independent and objective professionals.
We did not encounter any issues through our audit procedures that indicated the land or properties tested were not appropriately valued.
112 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 112 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We focused our work on those contracts with the greatest Group estimation uncertainty over the final contract values and Accounting for long-term contracts including profit therefore profit outcome.
These in particular included the recognition, work in progress and provisioning forecast end of life positions on a number of projects which Refer to page 79 Risk Management and Audit Committee Report have experienced significant change and therefore cost growth.
We challenged the judgements applied in managements The Group has significant long-term contracts in both the forecasts, in particular the key assumptions, which included Construction and Services divisions.
the expected recovery of variations, claims and compensation events from clients, and estimated recoveries from subcontractors, The recognition of profit on construction contracts in accordance with designers, and insurers included in the forecast.
IAS 11 is based on the stage of completion of contract activity.
We inspected correspondence and meeting minutes with Recoverability of work in progress on long-term services contracts customers concerning variations, claims and compensation involves significant estimates, including an assessment of the end events, and obtained third-party assessments of these from of life outcome of the forecast future profitability of those contracts.
legal or technical experts contracted by the Group, if applicable, to assess whether this information was consistent with the Profit on contracts is a significant risk for our audit because of the estimates made.
judgement involved in preparing suitable estimates of the forecast costs and revenue on contracts.
An error in the contract forecast We discussed the status of certain claims with external could result in a material variance in the amount of profit or loss solicitors and, where relevant, independent experts and recognised to date and therefore also in the current period.
assessed their objectivity and independence.
We inspected selected signed contracts for key clauses to These judgements include the expected recovery of costs arising identify relevant contractual mechanisms such as the sharing from the following: variations to the contract requested by the of cost overruns or efficiencies with the customer, contractual customer, compensation events, and claims made both by and damages and success fees and assessed whether these key against the Group for delays or other additional costs arising or clauses have been appropriately reflected in the amounts projected to arise.
The inclusion of these estimated amounts in the included in the forecasts.
contract forecast at an inappropriate level could result in a material error in the level of profit or loss recognised by the Group.
We inspected correspondence with insurers relating to recognised insurance claims as well as assessments of these undertaken by the insurers and Groups legal experts, where applicable, to assess whether this information supported the position taken on the contract.
Overall based on these procedures, we are satisfied that the work in progress relating to the Groups contracts is appropriately stated and that revenue and profits have been recorded appropriately.
In respect of long-term Environmental Services contracts: We challenged the assumptions in the cash flow models surrounding efficiency improvements in the cost base and projected revenues from the sale of recyclate.
We are satisfied that the assumptions are reasonable.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 113 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 113 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter In order to test the components of the acquisition, we performed the Group following procedures: Accounting for McNicholas acquisition Refer to page 79 Risk Management and Audit Committee Report Obtained technical papers prepared by management in respect and page 125 accounting policy.
of the acquisition to ensure they were consistent with the requirements of IFRS 3 and agreed the underlying inputs to The Group completed the acquisition of McNicholas, the UK relevant contracts and information: infrastructure services business, on 12 July 2017.
Assessed the fair value estimates of the assets acquired, Accounting for the acquisition required a fair value exercise, including including assessing the completeness and quantum of valuing separately identifiable intangible assets.
adjustments recorded by management: Examined the work performed on the purchase price This can be a particularly subjective process, given the range of allocations by managements external experts, to ensure assumptions that are adopted to determine the valuations, including that the relevant intangible assets have been appropriately the applicable discount rate used in the fair value calculations.
identified and reasonably valued supported by our internal Furthermore, the Directors have exercised judgement in determining valuation experts: to what extent events since the acquisition represented changes to conditions that existed at the date of acquisition.
Evaluated the competency and objectivity of managements external valuation expert: Based on an exercise performed by external valuation experts, the Directors identified 12.1m of intangibles relating to Challenged the key assumptions used in the valuation model, customer contracts.
including the discount rate: and Evaluated whether credits recognised subsequent to the acquisition should have instead represented adjustments to goodwill.
Based upon the above, we are satisfied with the accounting for the acquisition of McNicholas, and that the estimates involved are acceptable.
114 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 114 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Groups operations and reporting process is structured around five divisions represented by Property, Residential, Construction, Services, and Corporate.
All five reporting divisions are considered financially significant and were included as reporting components the Group audit.
The group audit partner led UK based teams responsible for the audit of each of the five components.
The vast majority of the Groups operations are concentrated in the UK and account for 94% of Group revenue, with the remaining 6% generated from overseas businesses.
Our audit approach was designed to obtain coverage over 90% 2017: 95% of the Groups revenue which included UK and overseas operations.
We are satisfied that we obtained appropriate audit coverage over the Groups Income statement, Balance sheet and cash flows through our audit work on the UK and overseas operations.
During the course of the audit, we have visited five construction projects 2017: seven, a number of finance operations located across the UK and held meetings with local management.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 6.8 million 2017: 6.3 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations 1% of total assets limited by the allocation of excluding non-underlying items.
Rationale for Based on our professional judgement, we determined We believe that calculating statutory materiality based materiality by applying a benchmark of 5% of on 1% of total assets is appropriate as total assets benchmark applied consolidated profit before tax excluding non-underlying is a typical primary measure for users of the financial items.
We believe that underlying profit before tax is statements of holding companies, and is a generally the most appropriate measure as it eliminates any accepted auditing benchmark.
disproportionate effect of exceptional charges and provides a consistent year-on-year basis for our work.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.9m and 5.5m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.3m Group audit 2017: 0.3m and 0.3m Company audit 2017: 0.3m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing material to add or to draw in respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the attention to.
However, because not all future events Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in or conditions can be predicted, this statement is preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going ability to continue as a going concern.
concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 115 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 115 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc continued The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and Reporting on other information of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual liquidity of the Group Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other The Directors confirmation on page 60 of the Annual Report information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any principal risks facing the Group, including those that would form of assurance thereon.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, The Directors explanation on page 60 of the Annual Report or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are over what period they have done so and why they consider required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to material misstatement of the financial statements or a material whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement they fall due over the period of their assessment, including of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to been included.
the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially Based on the responsibilities described above and our work less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their Strategic Report and Directors Report environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the Other Code Provisions audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to Report for the year ended 30 June 2018 is consistent with the report when: financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 The statement given by the Directors, on page 60, that In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, balanced and understandable, and provides the information we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Corporate Governance Statement Group and Company obtained in the course of performing In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the our audit.
audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement The section of the Annual Report on page 73 describing the page 57 about internal controls and risk management systems work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address in relation to financial reporting processes and about share matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the The Directors statement relating to the Companys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Directors Remuneration Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to information CA06.
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement page 57 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
CA06 116 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 116 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Responsibilities for the financial statements and Other required reporting the audit Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 110, the Directors are responsible we have not received all the information and explanations we for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with require for our audit: or the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true adequate accounting records have not been kept by the and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation received from branches not visited by us: or of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law whether due to fraud or error.
are not made: or In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible the Company financial statements and the part of the for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Appointment Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we financial statements were appointed by the members on 13 November 2014 to audit Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2015 and the financial statements as a whole are free from material subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an engagement is four years, covering the years ended 30 June 2015 auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance to 30 June 2018. is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Jonathan Hook Senior Statutory Auditor A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
London 19 September 2018 Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 117 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 117
