Financial statements Independent Auditors Report To the members of LandSecurities Group PLC Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: Land Securities Group PLCs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: The Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Land Securities Group PLCs financial statements comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2018 Balance sheet as at 31 March 2018 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 40 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 40 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as regards the Parent company financial statements as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 54-57 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on pages 52-53 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 58 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 58 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Landsec Annual Report 2018 117 Independent Auditors Report continued Overview of our audit approach Key audit The valuation of the property portfolio, including investment properties, investment properties held in joint ventures and trading properties matters Revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition, the treatment of rents and incentives and recognition of trading property proceeds Audit scope The Group solely operates in the United Kingdom and operates through two segments, London and Retail, both of which were subject to the same audit scope.
This included the Group audit team performing direct audit procedures on joint venture balances included within the Group financial statements Materiality Overall Group materiality of 124m which represents 1% of the carrying value of investment properties line item in the Group balance sheet at 31 March 2018 Specific materiality of 20m which represents 5% of revenue profit before tax is applied to account balances not related to investment properties either wholly owned or held within joint ventures Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the AuditCommittee The valuation of the Our audit procedures around the valuation of property included: We have audited the property portfolio, including inputs, assumptions and We evaluated the Groups controls over data used in the valuation of the property portfolio investment properties, methodology used by the and managements review of the valuations.
investment properties held external valuer.
We conclude We evaluated the competence of the external valuer which included consideration of their injoint ventures and trading that the methodology applied qualifications and expertise.
properties is reasonable and that the We met with the Groups external valuer to discuss their valuation approach and the external valuations are an 2018: 12,336m in investment appropriate assessment of judgements they made in assessing the property valuation such as estimated rental value, properties, 1,235m the yield profile and other assumptions that impact the value.
the market value of Groups share in investment investment properties and net properties held in joint ventures For a sample of properties we performed testing over source documentation provided by realisable value of trading and 24m in trading properties the Group to the external valuer.
This included agreeing a sample of this documentation properties at 31March 2018.
2017: 12,144m in investment back to underlying lease data and vouching costs incurred to date in respect of properties, 1,763m in Our Chartered Surveyors development properties.
We also assessed the reasonableness of the costs to complete investment properties held information in respect of properties in the course of development by comparing the total concluded that the sample of injoint ventures and 122m valuations they reviewed were forecast costs to contractual arrangements and approved budgets.
We included Chartered Surveyors on our audit team who reviewed and challenged the Refer to the Accountability valuation approach and assumptions for a sample of properties which comprised 67% of We conclude that section of the Annual Report the market value of investment properties including investment properties held in joint management provided an pages 78-83 : Accounting ventures and 95% of the carrying value of trading properties.
Our Chartered Surveyors appropriate level of review policies page 139-140 : notes compared the equivalent yields applied to each property to an expected range of yields and challenge over the 14, 15 and 16 of the financial taking into account market data and asset specific considerations.
They also considered valuations, but we did not statements pages 141-149. whether the other assumptions applied by the external valuer, such as the estimated rental identify evidence of undue values, voids, tenant incentives and development costs to complete were supported by management influence.
The valuation of property available data such as recent lettings and occupancy levels.
including investment properties, investment Together with our Chartered Surveyors, we met with the external valuer to discuss the properties held in joint ventures findings from our audit work described above and to seek further explanations as required.
and trading properties requires We also discussed the impact of current market conditions, including Brexit, on the significant judgement and property valuations.
estimates by management and We conducted analytical procedures on the properties not included in the sample reviewed the external valuer.
Any input in detail by our Chartered Surveyors by comparing assumptions and the value of each inaccuracies or unreasonable property in the portfolio by reference to our understanding of the UK real estate market, bases used in these judgements external market data and asset specific considerations to evaluate the appropriateness such as in respect of ofthe valuations adopted by the Group.
We investigated further the valuations of some estimated rental value and properties which included further discussions with management and, where appropriate, yield profile applied could obtaining evidence to support the movement in values and involvement of our Chartered result in a material Surveyors.
misstatement of the income statement and balance sheet.
We attended meetings between management and the external valuer to assess for evidence of undue management influence and we obtained a confirmation from the There is also a risk that external valuer that they had not been subject to undue influence from management.
management may influence We utilised our analytical procedures and work of the Chartered Surveyors described above the significant judgements andestimates in respect of in order to assess for evidence of undue management influence.
property valuations in order We performed site visits accompanied by our Chartered Surveyors for a sample of properties toachieve property valuation in the development programme, which enabled us to assess the stage of completion of, and other performance targets andgain specific insights into, these developments.
We also performed sitevisits to some to meet market expectations investment properties which are not under development, in order to gain a better or bonus targets.
118 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the AuditCommittee The valuation of the We met with development directors and project managers for major properties in the property portfolio, including development programme and assessed project costs, progress of development and investment properties, leasing status and considered the reasonableness of the forecast costs to complete investment properties held included in the valuations as well as identified contingencies, exposures and remaining risks.
in joint ventures and trading We corroborated the information provided by the development directors and the project properties continued managers through valuation review, site visits and cost analysis.
We also reviewed development feasibilities and monthly development reporting against budget.
On trading properties, we compared cost to net realisable value actual sales prices achieved or market evidence to identify any potential indicator of impairment.
Scope of our procedures We performed full scope audit procedures over valuation of all properties, including investment properties, investment properties held in joint ventures and trading properties.
Revenue recognition, Our audit procedures over revenue recognition included: We audited the timing including the timing of of revenue recognition, We carried out testing relating to controls over revenue recognition and the treatment revenue recognition, treatment of rents and of rents which have been designed by the Group to prevent and detect fraud and errors thetreatment of rents incentives and recognition in revenue recognition.
This included testing the controls governing approvals and changes andincentives and of trading property proceeds to lease terms and the upload of this information to the Groups property information recognition of trading and assessed the risk of management system.
We also performed controls testing on the billings process.
We selected a sample of new or amended lease agreements in the year and agreed the Based upon the audit 2018: 612m rental income and data input into PIMS, the property information management system, including lease procedures performed, we 96m trading property sales incentive clauses.
concluded that revenue has proceeds 2017: 587m rental Detailed analytical procedures and cut off procedures were performed using data been recognised on an income and 62m trading analytics tools on the recognition of revenue, including rents, incentives and other property appropriate basis in the year.
related revenue to assess whether revenue had been recognised in the appropriate Refer to the Accountability accounting period.
section of the Annual Report We agreed a sample of lease agreements to the schedules used to calculate straight-lining pages 78-83 : Accounting of revenue in accordance with SIC 15 Operating Leases Incentives and corroborated the policy page 133 : and note 6 arithmetical accuracy of these schedules and the resulting amounts in revenue for straightof thefinancial statements lining of tenant lease incentives.
We assessed the recoverability of tenant lease incentives receivable balance by evaluating Market expectations and the financial viability of the major tenants with related lease incentive debtors.
revenue profit based targets may place pressure on We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRS as management to distort adopted by the European Union.
This may We performed audit procedures specifically designed to address the risk of management result in overstatement or override of controls including journal entry testing, which included particular focus on deferral of revenues to assist journal entries which impact revenue.
in meeting current or future We tested a sample of trading property proceeds recognised during the year through targets or expectations.
agreement to contracts and cash to bank in order to verify that revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer.
Scope of our procedures The whole Group was subject to full scope audit procedures over revenue.
Compared to the prior year, we have expanded the definition of the significant risk around valuation of property to include trading properties.
There have been no other changes to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
The Group solely operates in the United Kingdom and operates through two segments, London and Retail, both of which were subject to the same audit scope.
The Group audit team performed all the work necessary to issue the Group and parent company audit opinion, including undertaking allof the audit work on the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Landsec Annual Report 2018 119 Independent Auditors Report continued Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and informing our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
The table below sets out the materiality, performance materiality and threshold for reporting audit differences applied on our audit: Basis Materiality Performance materiality Audit differences Overall 1% 2017: 0.5% of carrying value of 124m 93m 6m investment properties 2017: 61m 2017: 46m 2017: 3m Account balances not related to Revenue profit before tax 2017: Profit 20m 15m 1m investment properties either wholly before tax, excluding the impact of the 2017: 21m 2017: 16m 2017: 1m owned or held within joint ventures net deficit on revaluation of investment properties either wholly owned or held within joint ventures and the impact of the redemption of medium term notes Adjusted PBT When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined that the carrying value of investment property would be the most appropriate basis for determining overall materiality given that the Groups investment property balance accounts for around 85% of the Groups total assets 2017: 82% and the fact that key users of the Groups financial statements are primarily focused on the valuation of the investment property portfolio.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
We benchmarked our basis for overall materiality against other UK listed REITs and determined that it is appropriate to increase overall planning materiality from 0.5% to 1% of investment property value so that a comparable approach is applied.
Based on this, we have determined that it is appropriate to increase overall planning materiality to 1% of the carrying value of investment property 2017: 0.5%.
We have determined that for other account balances not related to investment properties either wholly owned or held within joint ventures a misstatement of less than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could influence the economic decisions of users.
We have determined that materiality for these areas should be based upon revenue profit before tax of 406m 2017: 382m.
We believe that it is appropriate to use a profit based measure as profit is also a focus of users of the financial statements.
The basis of materiality for other account balances not related to investment properties has changed from Adjusted PBT in 2017 to revenue profit before tax in 2018.
For clarity purposes we have refined the measure to be revenue profit as it is considered to be a more appropriate measure to adopt in this regard, as it is the Groups primary measure of underlying profit.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and, as the actual carrying value of investment properties was in line with that which we had used as the initial basis for determining overall materiality, our final materiality was consistent with the materiality we calculated initially.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement is that overall performance materiality and specific performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% 2017: 75% of the respective materiality.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Our objective in adopting this approach is to confirm that total detected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 6m 2017: 3m, as well asaudit differences in excess of 1m 2017: 1m that relate to our specific testing of the other account balances not related to investment properties which are set at 5% of their respective planning materiality.
We also agreed to report differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
120 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, including Strategic Report and Governance other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 116 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 76-83 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 116 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, wehave not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 116, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Landsec Annual Report 2018 121 Independent Auditors Report continued Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax regulations in the United Kingdom, including the UK REIT regulations.
We understood how the Company is complying with those frameworks through enquiry with management, and by identifying the Companys policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We also identified those members of management who have the primary responsibility for ensuring compliance with laws and regulations, and for reporting any known instances of non-compliance to those charged with governance.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by reviewing the Companies risk register, enquiry with management and the Audit Committee during the planning and execution phases of our audit.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved the following: Inquire of members of Senior Management, and when appropriate, those charged with governance regarding their knowledge of any non-compliance or potential non-compliance with laws and regulations that could affect the financial statements.
Reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance.
Obtaining and reading correspondence from legal and regulatory bodies including HMRC.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the Company at the AGM on 18 July 2013 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2014 andsubsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is fiveyears, covering all year ends between 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2018.
Ouraudit engagement letter was refreshed on 23 January 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Eamonn McGrath Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 14 May 2018 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Land Securities Group PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions 122 Landsec Annual Report 2018
