Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 161 Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements of Lloyds Banking Group plc the Group and the parent company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IASRegulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2018: the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated and parent company cash flow statements for the year then ended: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
We have also audited the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 1 January 2018.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are crossreferenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that nonaudit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
Other than those disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements, we have not provided nonaudit services to the Group or the parent company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 360 million 2017: 350 million, based on 5 per cent of profit adjusted to remove the effects of certain items which were considered to have a disproportionate impact.
Overall parent company materiality: 360 million 2017: 350 million, based on 1 per cent of total assets.
The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were determined by our risk assessment, the financial significance of components and other qualitative factors including history of misstatement through fraud or error.
We performed audit procedures over components considered financially significant in the context of the Group full scope audit or in the context of individual primary statement account balances audit of specific account balances.
We performed other procedures including testing entity level controls, information technology general controls and analytical review procedures to mitigate the risk of material misstatement in the residual components.
The key audit matters which were of most significance in the audit and involved the greatest allocation of our resources and effort were: Expected credit loss allowances Group Conduct risk and provisions Group Insurance actuarial assumptions Group Valuation of certain level 3 financial instruments Group Defined benefit obligation Group Hedge accounting Group Privileged access to IT systems Group and parent company These items were discussed with the Audit Committee as part of our audit plan communicated in April 2018 and supplemented with updates in January2019.
These were the key audit matters for discussion at the conclusion of our audit.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
16 162 2 Ll Llo oy yd ds s Ba Ban nk ki in ng g G Grou roup p A Annu nnua al l R Re ep por ort t a and nd A Ac cc co oun unfit ts s 2 20 01 18 8 Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to breaches of banking laws and regulations such as, but not limited to, regulations relating to consumer credit and unethical and prohibited business practices, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Banking Reform Act.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting manual journal entries to manipulate financial performance, management bias through judgements and assumptions in significant accounting estimates and significant one-off or unusual transactions.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors referred to in the scoping section of our report below, so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors included: Discussions with management and those charged with governance including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud: Evaluation and testing of the operating effectiveness of managements entity level controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities, in particular their code of conduct and whistleblowing helpline: Assessment of matters reported on the Groups whistleblowing helpline and the results of managements investigation of such matters: Performed testing over period end adjustments: Incorporated unpredictability into the nature, timing and or extent of our testing: Reviewing key correspondence with the FCA and PRA: Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to expected credit losses: conduct risk and provisions: insurance actuarial assumptions: valuation of certain level 3 financial instruments: and defined benefit obligation see related key audit matters below : and Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any manual journal entries posted by infrequent users or senior management, posted on unusual days, posted with descriptions indicating a higher level of risk, or posted late with a favourable impact on financial performance.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality 360 million 2017: 350 million.
How we determined it 5 per cent of adjusted profit, which removes the 1 per cent of total assets.
effects of certain items which were considered to have a disproportionate impact.
Rationale for benchmark applied Our starting point was 5 per cent of profit before tax, We have selected total assets as an appropriate a generally accepted auditing practice.
Profit before benchmark for parent company materiality.
Profit tax was adjusted to remove the disproportionate based benchmarks are not considered appropriate effect of regulatory provisions as they are considered for parent company materiality as the Group is not not to reflect the long term performance of the required to disclose a parent company profit & loss.
Where the calculated parent company materiality from total assets exceeds the Group overall materiality level, the parent company overall materiality has been restricted to equal the Group overall materiality level.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 50 million and 100 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 15 million Group audit and parent company audit 2017: 20 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is structured into three segments being Retail, Commercial Banking, and Insurance and Wealth.
Each of the segments comprises a number of components.
The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of the components.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 163 In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that is required to be performed over the components by us, as the Group engagement team, or auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction component auditors.
Almost all of our audit work is undertaken by PwC UK component auditors.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
This included regular communication with the component auditors throughout the audit, the issuance of instructions, a review of the results of their work on the key audit matters and formal clearance meetings.
Any components which were considered individually financially significant in the context of the Groups consolidated financial statements defined as components that represent more than or equal to 10% of the total assets of the consolidated Group were considered full scope components.
We considered the individual financial significance of other components in relation to primary statement account balances.
We considered the presence of any significant audit risks and other qualitative factors including history of misstatements through fraud or error.
Any component which was not already included as a full scope audit component but was identified as being individually financially significant in respect of one of more account balances was subject to specific audit procedures over those account balances.
Inconsequential components defined as components which, in our judgement, did not represent a reasonable possibility of a risk of material misstatement either individually or in aggregate were eliminated from further consideration for specific audit procedures although they were subject to Group level analytical review procedures.
All remaining components which were neither inconsequential nor individually financially significant were subject to procedures which mitigated the risk of material misstatement including testing of entity level controls, information technology general controls and Group and component level analytical review procedures.
Certain account balances were audited centrally by the Group engagement team.
Components within the scope of our audit contributed 92 per cent of Group total assets and 87 per cent of Group total income.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Expected credit loss allowances Group economics Group We understood managements process and tested key controls relating to the generation, selection and weighting applied to economic scenarios.
We engaged our Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Report, page 177 internal economic experts as well as actuarial modelling specialists to assist us as we Accounting Policies and page 208 Note 20 and Critical considered: Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
The identification and use of appropriate external economic data: The determination of expected credit loss allowances is highly subjective and judgemental.
With the introduction of The operation of the Groups internally developed statistical model: IFRS 9 in 2018, a number of additional judgements and The approach to selection of economic scenarios representing an upside, downside and assumptions are introduced and reflected in the financial severe downside in addition to the Groups base case scenario used for internal statements, including the identification of significant planning: and increases in credit risk and the application of forward The review, challenge and approval of the scenarios adopted through the Groups looking economic scenarios.
Group economics We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and The Group's economics team develops future economic therefore determined that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes scenarios by using a statistical model and a number of of our audit.
Four scenarios are chosen from the We critically assessed the assumptions adopted in the base case economic scenario and model output which represent distinct economic scenarios compared this both to our independent view of the economic outlook as well as market and sensitivities of historical loss experience.
These four consensus, and investigated economic variables outside of our thresholds.
We assessed scenarios together with relative weightings are then the risk of bias in the forecasts, as well as the existence of contrary evidence.
We provided to the Retail and Commercial Banking divisions considered the political uncertainties that existed at the year-end and how these might for incorporation into the Stage allocation process and the impact on the economic scenarios selected by the Group.
calculation of expected credit loss allowances.
We also independently ran the Groups model and performed testing to evaluate the level of non-linearity reflected in the expected credit loss allowances.
Based on the evidence obtained, we consider that the economic scenarios adopted reflect an unbiased, probability weighted view, that appropriately captures the impact of non-linearity.
164 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Retail Retail and Commercial Banking Expected credit loss allowances relating to loans and We understood managements process and tested key controls around the determination advances in the Retail division are determined on a of expected credit loss allowances, including controls relating to: collective basis, with the use of impairment models.
Appropriateness of modelling methodologies and monitoring of model performance: These models use a number of key assumptions including Periodic model review, validation and approval: probability of default, loss given default including propensity for possession and forced sale discounts for The identification of credit impairment events: and mortgages and valuation of recoveries.
Management The review, challenge and approval of the expected credit loss allowances, including the also apply overlays where they believe the model impairment model outputs, key management judgements and overlays applied.
calculated assumptions and allowances are not We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and appropriate, either due to emerging trends or the model therefore determined that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes limitations.
An example of this is an overlay to the of our audit.
impairment model output for the UK mortgages portfolio We understood and assessed the appropriateness of the impairment models developed relating to expected credit losses on past term interestand used by management.
This included assessing and challenging the appropriateness only exposures.
Our work therefore focused on the of key modelling judgements e. g. the transfer criteria used to determine significant appropriateness of modelling methodologies adopted increase in credit risk and quantifying the impact of the use of proxies and simplifications, and the significant judgements required to determine the assessing whether these were appropriate.
We also created our own independent models requirement for overlays and the measurement of those covering certain parts of the model calculation and for selected portfolios this enabled us overlays.
to re-perform managements calculation and challenge their outputs.
Commercial Banking We tested the formulae applied within the calculation files.
We tested the completeness Expected credit loss allowances relating to credit impaired and accuracy of key data inputs, sourced from underlying systems that are applied in the loans and advances referred to herein also as being in calculation.
We tested the reconciliation of loans and advances between underlying Stage 3 in the Commercial Banking division are primarily source systems and the expected credit loss models.
estimated on an individual basis.
Judgement is required to We performed testing over the measurement of the overlays in place, focusing on the determine when a loan is considered to be credit impaired, larger overlays and those which we considered to represent the greatest level of audit risk and then to estimate the expected future cash flows related e. g. overlays relating to past term interest-only exposures and forbearance on the UK to that loan under multiple weighted scenario outcomes.
We assessed the appropriateness of methodologies used to An expected credit loss allowance is determined on determine and quantify the overlays required and the reasonableness of key assumptions.
Commercial Banking loans and advances which are not Based on our knowledge and understanding of the weaknesses and limitations in classified as being credit impaired at the reporting date managements models and industry emerging risks, we critically assessed the referred to as being in Stages 1 and 2 using impairment completeness of the overlays proposed by management.
models based on key assumptions including probability of default and loss given default.
Management apply overlays We used credit risk modelling specialists to support the audit team in the performance of to the modelled output to address risks not captured by these audit procedures.
Commercial Banking Stage 3 assets We performed the following procedures to test the completeness of credit impaired assets requiring a Stage 3 expected credit loss allowance: We critically assessed the criteria for determining whether a credit impairment event had occurred: We tested a risk based sample of Stage 1 and 2 loans, utilising industry and insolvency specialists to support the audit team in identifying sectors or borrowers with risk characteristics which might imply an indicator of impairment.
For each risk based sample, as well as an additional haphazardly selected sample of Stage 1 and 2 loans, we independently assessed whether they had indicators of a credit impairment event e. g. a customer experiencing financial difficulty or in breach of covenant and therefore whether they were appropriately categorised.
For a sample of stage 3 credit impaired loans, we: Evaluated the basis on which the allowance was determined, and the evidence supporting the analysis performed by management: We independently challenged whether the key assumptions used, such as the recovery strategies, collateral rights and ranges of potential outcomes, were appropriate, given the borrowers circumstances: and Re-performed managements allowance calculation, testing key inputs including expected future cash flows, discount rates, valuations of collateral held and the weightings applied to scenario outcomes.
Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the methodologies, modelled assumptions, management judgements and data used within the allowance assessment to be appropriate and in line with the requirements of IFRS 9.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 165 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Conduct risk and provisions We understood and tested the key controls around the identification of matters which require provision, the estimation and review of provisions, including governance Group processes, challenge of key assumptions and approval of provisions.
Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Report, page 177 We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and Accounting Policies and page 226 Note 37 and Critical therefore determined that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
Provisions reflecting the Groups best estimate of present Our work focused on the more significant provisions in relation to past sales of payment obligations relating to anticipated customer redress protection insurance PPI policies, arrears handling activities, packaged bank accounts payments, operational costs and regulatory fines as a and customer claims in relation to insurance products sold by the German branch of result of past events, practices and conduct continue to Clerical Medical Investment Group Ltd now Scottish Widows Ltd. We also examined be significant and therefore represent a key audit matter.
other conduct provisions which are individually less significant.
The most significant provisions relate to past sales of For the provisions which are based on assumptions determined using management payment protection insurance PPI policies, arrears judgement with reference to historic experience, we understood and challenged the handling activities, packaged bank accounts and provisioning methodologies and underlying assumptions, including whether historic customer claims in relation to insurance products sold by information had been appropriately incorporated and whether this was an appropriate the German branch of Clerical Medical Investment Group indicator of future experience.
For example, we challenged the basis that management Ltd now Scottish Widows Ltd. used for forecasting the volume of PPI complaints that will be received in the future.
Determining the measurement of provisions requires a For provisions which are dependent upon proactive identification and rectification of number of assumptions which are made using a affected customers e. g. provisions for arrears handling activities, we understood the significant degree of management judgement.
Key planned management actions, understood the basis for estimating the provision and assumptions include the volume of future complaints and challenged key assumptions, including those around the costs of identifying and rectifying related redress costs.
We independently performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions and considered alternative scenarios which could be considered reasonably possible.
We considered regulatory developments and reviewed the Groups correspondence with the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority, discussing the content of any correspondence considered to be pertinent to our audit with management.
We also met with each regulator.
Given the inherent uncertainty in the estimation of conduct, litigation and other regulatory provisions and their judgemental nature, we evaluated the disclosures made in the financial statements.
In particular, we focused on challenging management around whether the disclosures were sufficiently clear in highlighting the exposures that remain, significant uncertainties that exist in respect of the provisions and the sensitivity of the provisions to changes in the underlying assumptions.
Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, we found managements assumptions to be appropriate.
166 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Insurance actuarial assumptions We understood and tested key controls and governance around the processes for setting actuarial assumptions.
Group We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Report, page 177 therefore determined that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes Accounting Policies and pages 210, 215 and 218 of our audit.
Notes24, 31, 32 and Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
Our actuarial specialists assessed the reasonableness of the actuarial assumptions, including considering and challenging managements rationale for judgements applied A number of subjective assumptions about future and any reliance placed on industry information.
Where appropriate, assumptions were experience contribute as key inputs into the valuation of benchmarked by comparing to the Groups peers in the insurance market whilst the Groups insurance contracts, participating investment overlaying an understanding of the specific policy features of the Groups business.
contracts insurance contract liabilities and value of in-force business asset.
For longevity, we assessed the appropriateness of how the Groups own experience and industry data were used in setting future assumptions and we compared resulting life Some of the economic and non-economic actuarial expectancies to benchmarking data.
assumptions used in valuing the insurance contract liabilities and the value of in-force business asset are For maintenance expenses, we assessed the appropriateness of the judgements in highly judgemental in nature, in particular persistency respect of costs deemed to be non-attributable to insurance business and the resulting theretention of policies over time, longevity the per-policy costs assumptions.
We reviewed the adjustments required reflecting the impact expectation of how long an annuity policyholder will live of the Groups outsourcing agreements, including any changes to the cost base that are and how that might change over time, maintenance expected to be required due to Brexit.
expenses future expenses incurred to maintain existing For credit default and illiquidity premium, we assessed the appropriateness of the policies to maturity, credit default and illiquidity premium methodology against our knowledge and experience of regulatory requirements and adjustments made to the discount rate.
We challenged whether the asset mix used in the illiquidity premium calculation remained an appropriate proxy to a market consistent portfolio by comparing the proportion of illiquid assets held to those held by other similar companies based on our understanding of the market and the most recent public information for other similar companies.
For persistency, we considered the appropriateness of assumptions set by management in light of actual experience and regulatory changes.
For example, we considered how the assumptions reflected expected persistency experience from the removal of commission for qualifying pension schemes and the impact of increased options available to pension policyholders Finance Act 2014.
Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the methodologies, modelled assumptions, data used within the models and overlays to modelled outputs to be appropriate.
Valuation of certain level 3 financial instruments We understood and tested the key controls around the valuation processes including the independent price verification and valuation governance controls.
Group We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Report, page 177 therefore determined that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes Accounting Policies and pages 241 and 271 Notes 49, 54 of our audit.
and Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
With the support of our valuations specialists, we performed the following testing: As part of the Groups transition to IFRS 9, 10.2bn of financial assets have been transferred from amortised evaluating the appropriateness of the valuation methodologies and testing their cost to fair value.
These comprise two portfolios, each of application: which are concentrations of similar, non-traded assets evaluating key inputs and assumptions, with reference to matters including historic which are classified as level 3 instruments as their performance, market information and perspectives, servicer and trustee reports and valuation is subjective and determined using bespoke investment prospectuses: and models which rely on a range of unobservable inputs.
assessing the reasonableness of the valuations and performing sensitivity analyses over them.
Based on the evidence obtained, we determined that the methodologies, inputs and assumptions are appropriate.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 167 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Defined benefit obligation We understood and tested key controls over the pensions process involving member data, formulation of assumptions and the financial reporting process.
We tested the Group controls for determining the actuarial assumptions and the approval of those assumptions Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Report, page 177 by senior management.
Accounting Policies and page 219 Note 35 and Critical We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
therefore determined that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes The valuation of the retirement benefit schemes in the of our audit.
Group are determined with reference to various actuarial We engaged our actuarial experts and met with management and their actuary to assumptions including discount rate, rate of inflation and understand the judgements made in determining key economic assumptions used in the mortality rates.
Due to the size of these schemes, small calculation of the liability.
We assessed the reasonableness of those assumptions by changes in these assumptions can have a material impact comparing to our own independently determined benchmarks and concluded that the on the estimated defined benefit obligation.
assumptions used by management were appropriate.
Our actuarial experts have performed testing over the Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation impact calculated by managements actuary, reviewed the approach taken and understood the key assumptions used in the calculations.
We used our own independent GMP equalisation modelling tools to support this testing.
We performed testing over the consensus and employee data used in calculating the obligation.
Where material, we also considered the treatment of curtailments, settlements, past service costs, remeasurements, benefits paid, and any other amendments made to obligations during the year.
From the evidence obtained, we found the data and assumptions used by management in the actuarial valuations for pension obligations to be appropriate.
We read and assessed the disclosures made in the financial statements, including disclosures of the assumptions, and found them to be appropriate.
Hedge accounting We understood and tested key controls over the designation and ongoing management of hedge accounting relationships, including testing of hedge effectiveness as well as the Group controls around the preparation and review of hedging strategy and related Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Report, page 177 documentation prior to the implementation of new hedges.
Accounting Policies, and page 255 Note 52.
We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and The Group enters into derivative contracts in order to therefore determined that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes manage and economically hedge risks such as interest of our audit.
and foreign exchange rate risk.
These arrangements Our testing included the following: create accounting mismatches which are addressed through designating instruments into fair value or cash examining selected hedge documentation to assess whether it complies with the flow hedge accounting relationships.
requirements of IFRS: The Group's application of hedge accounting, including testing the key year-end reconciliations between underlying source systems and the determining effectiveness, is manual in nature, which spreadsheets used to manage hedging models: increases the risk of errors and hence the risk that financial independently assessing whether management have captured and are monitoring all reporting is not in line with IFRS requirements.
material sources of ineffectiveness: re-performing a sample of hedge effectiveness calculations: and testing a sample of manual adjustments posted to record ineffectiveness.
Based on the evidence obtained, we determined the application of hedge accounting to be appropriate and compliant with the requirements of IFRS.
Privileged access to IT systems We tested the design and operating effectiveness of those key controls identified that manage IT privileged access across the in-scope IT platforms.
Specifically we tested Group and parent company controls over: Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Report.
The completeness and accuracy of the Access Controls Lists ACLs from IT platforms The Groups financial reporting processes are reliant on that are used by downstream IT security processes: automated processes, controls and data managed by IT The onboarding and management of IT privileged accounts through the privileged systems.
access restriction tool including static IT privileged accounts : For the purposes of our audit, we validate the design and The monitoring of security events on IT platforms by the Security Operations Centre: operating effectiveness of those automated and IT and dependent controls that support the in-scope financial statement line items.
We also review the supporting IT Approval, recertification and timely removal of access from IT systems.
General Computer Controls ITGCs that provide As part of our review, we identified a number of IT privileged accounts that had not been assurance over the effective operation of these controls as onboarded to the privileged access restriction tool as at 31 December 2018. well as those controls that manage the integrity of relevant Consequently, we performed an assessment of each of the areas within our audit data repositories for the full financial reporting period.
approach where we place reliance on automated functionality and data within IT systems.
As part of our audit work in prior periods, we identified In each case we identified a combination of mitigating controls, performed additional control matters in relation to the management of IT audit procedures and assessed other mitigating factors in order to respond to the impact privileged access to IT platforms supporting applications on our overall audit approach.
While there is an ongoing programme of activities to address such control matters, the fact that these were open during the period meant there was a risk that automated functionality, reports and data from the systems were not reliable.
168 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add, or draw In reviewing the directors statement, we have considered the Group and attention to, in respect of the directors statement in the financial parent company budgets, and the Group and parent companys capital statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to and liquidity plans, resources and stress tests.
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements, and the directors identification of any material uncertainties We have nothing to report in respect of the above matters.
However, to the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent companys approval of the financial statements.
ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to going We have nothing to report.
concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Thedirectors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 81 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 80 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 81, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 70 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2018 169 Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 81, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the directors on 21 December 1995 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 1995 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 24 years, covering the years ended 31 December 1995 to 31 December 2018.
The audit was tendered in 2014 and we were re-appointed with effect from 1 January 2016.
There will be a mandatory rotation for the 2021 audit.
Mark Hannam Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 19 February 2019
