Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Independent Auditors report to the members WNh4WVLWV5M ZQK 8ZWXMZ a 8TK Report on the audit of the financial statements We have audited the financial Opinion Basis for opinion statements of LondonMetric Property Plc In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance the Company and its subsidiaries the with International Standards on the financial statements give a Group which comprise: Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable true and fair view of the state of the law.
Our responsibilities under those the Group income statement Groups and of the Companys affairs standards are further described in the the Group and Company as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups auditors responsibilities for the audit balance sheets profit for the year then ended of the financial statements section of the Group and Company statements the Group financial statements our report.
of changes in equity have been properly prepared in We are independent of the Group and accordance with International the Group cash ow statement the Company in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs the Statement of accounting ethical requirements that are relevant as adopted by the European Union policies and the related notes 1 to to our audit of the financial statements the Company financial statements 20 for the Group notes and i to vii for in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical have been properly prepared in the Company Standard as applied to listed public accordance with United Kingdom The financial reporting framework that interest entities, and we have fullled Generally Accepted Accounting has been applied in the preparation our other ethical responsibilities in Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced of the Group financial statements is accordance with these requirements.
Disclosure Framework applicable law and IFRSs as adopted We confirm that the non audit services the financial statements have been by the European Union.
The financial prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard prepared in accordance with the reporting framework that has been were not provided to the Group or requirements of the Companies applied in the preparation of the the Company.
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Company financial statements is We believe that the audit evidence financial statements, Article 4 of the applicable law and United Kingdom we have obtained is sufficient and IAS Regulation Accounting Standards, including FRS appropriate to provide a basis for 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework our opinion.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identied in the current year were: Valuation of investment property Property transaction accounting Revenue recognition Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 22.9 million which was determined on the basis of 2% of equity.
For testing balances that impacted EPRA earnings we used a lower materiality of 3.0 million, which is based on 5% of that measure.
Scoping The Group is subject to a full scope audit on 100% of net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
significant changes There has been no change to the basis upon which materiality is determined, our in our approach identied key audit matters or our approach in scoping the audit from the prior year.
LondonMetric Property Plc 11 0 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors report to the members WN 4WVLWV5M ZQK 8ZWXMZ a 8TK KWV QV]ML why they consider that period to be Conclusions relating to going Principal risks and viability statement appropriate, and their statement as concern, principal risks and Based solely on reading the Directors to whether they have a reasonable viability statement statements and considering whether expectation that the Group will be able they were consistent with the knowledge Going concern to continue in operation and meet its we obtained in the course of the audit, We have reviewed the Directors liabilities as they fall due over the period including the knowledge obtained in the statement in note 1 to the financial of their assessment, including any evaluation of the Directors assessment statements about whether they related disclosures drawing attention of the Groups and the Companys considered it appropriate to adopt the to any necessary qualications ability to continue as a going concern, going concern basis of accounting in or assumptions we are required to state whether we preparing them and their identication of have anything material to add or draw We are also required to report whether any material uncertainties to the Groups attention to in relation to: the Directors statement relating to the and Companys ability to continue to prospects of the Group required by Listing do so over a period of at least 12 months the disclosures on pages 49 to 59 Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent from the date of approval of the that describe the principal risks and withour knowledge obtained in the audit.
explain how they are being managed or mitigated We confirm that we have nothing We are required to state whether we material to report, add or draw attention the Directors conrmation on page have anything material to add or draw to in respect of these matters.
48 that they have carried out a robust attention to in relation to that statement assessment of the principal risks facing required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and the Group, including those that would report if the statement is materially threaten its business model, future inconsistent with our knowledge obtained performance, solvency or liquidity in the audit.
the Directors explanation on page We confirm that we have nothing 60 as to how they have assessed material to report, add or draw attention the prospects of the Group, over to in respect of these matters.
what period they have done so and whether or not due to fraud that we These matters were addressed in the Key audit matters identied.
These matters included those context of our audit of the financial Key audit matters are those matters which had the greatest effect on: the statements as a whole, and in forming that, in our professional judgement, overall audit strategy, the allocation of our opinion thereon, and we do were of most signicance in our audit of resources in the audit: and directing not provide a separate opinion on the financial statements of the current the efforts of the engagement team.
period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement Property transaction accounting Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to thekey audit matter Key observations In the period the Group has undertaken For all significant transactions and a sample of non We concluded a large number of property acquisitions significant transactions, we assessed the fair value of that all material for a total consideration of 306.6 million consideration and confirmed key transaction terms by property 2017:141.9 million and disposals for a total reference to acquisition or disposal agreements and transactions of 172.0 million 2017: 175.6 million.
other external evidence for all significant acquisitions had been and disposals in the year appropriately Our key audit matter is focused on accounted for.
transactions which include complexities We considered the date at which the transactions such as conditionality, deferred completion completed based on the timing of the transfer of risks arrangements and joint venture contractual and rewards of ownership per the acquisition or disposal obligations, which require judgement as to agreements, and considered the impact of these the appropriate accounting to be applied.
transactions on revenue recognition There is therefore a potential fraud risk in the We considered the adequacy of the disclosure of assessment of when the transfer of risks and thetransactions in the financial statements rewards of ownerships are met.
We recalculated the profit or loss on disposals based Refer to page 84 Audit Committee report, onthe terms of the transaction page 118 accounting policy and note 9 on pages 128 to 129 financial disclosures.
Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Valuation of Investment Property Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to thekey audit matter Key observations The Group owns a portfolio of largely retail We assessed managements process for reviewing We concluded and distribution property assets, which is and assessing the work of the external valuer and that the valued at 1,677.6million 2017: 1,373.4 million development appraisals assumptions as at 31 March 2018.
The valuation of the applied in arriving We assessed the competence, objectivity and portfolio is a significant judgement area and at the fair value integrity of the external valuer and read their terms of is underpinned by a number of assumptions of the Groups engagement with the Group to determine whether including capitalisation yields, future lease property portfolio there were any matters that might have affected their income and with reference to development bythe external objectivity or may have imposed scope limitations on properties, costs tocomplete.
valuers were their work appropriate.
The Group uses professionally qualied external We obtained the external valuation reports and assessed valuers to fair value the Groups portfolio at and challenged the valuation process, performance six-monthly intervals.
The valuers are engaged of the portfolio and significant assumptions and critical by the Directors and performed their work judgement areas, including lease incentives, future lease in accordance with the Royal Institution of income and yields.
We benchmarked these assumptions Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation to relevant market evidence including specic property Professional Standards.
The valuers used by sales and other external data theGroup have considerable experience in We met with the external valuers of the portfolio the markets in which the Group operates.
to discuss the results of their work.
For a sample of The valuation exercise also relies on the properties of audit interest we further challenged the accuracy of the underlying lease and assumptions and valuation with the valuers financial information provided to the valuers We performed audit procedures to assess the integrity by management.
Therefore, due to this of a sample of the information provided to the external and the high level of judgement in the valuer by agreeing that information to underlying assumptions, we have determined that there leaseagreements is a potential fraud risk in the balance.
We tested a sample of the costs to complete in relation Refer to page 84 Audit Committee report, to the development properties via challenging the page 118 accounting policy and note 9 on assumptions or agreeing to supporting documentation pages 128 to 129 financial disclosures.
such as construction contracts Revenue Recognition Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to thekey audit matter Key observations ISA 240 UK states that when identifying and As part of our audit of revenue, we focused on We concluded assessing the risks of material misstatement any unusual and complex adjustments to revenue, that revenue was due to fraud, the auditor shall, based on a agreeing the lease incentives for a sample of items appropriately presumption that there are risks of fraud in tothe underlying leases, with our sample covering accounted for.
revenue recognition, evaluate which types bothexisting and new leases ofrevenue, revenue transactions or assertions We recalculated the required adjustment to the give rise to such risks.
annualrent in relation to these items to determine Revenue for the Group primarily consists whether the correct amount of revenue had been of rental income earned on its investment recognised in the year property portfolio.
Total gross rental income for the year to 31 March 2018 was 82.0 million 2017: 73.9 million.
Within revenue, there are certain transactions which warrant additional audit focus and have an increased inherent risk of error due to their non-standard nature, for example deferred completion dates.
Our key audit matter is focused on the identication of the point where the risks and rewards of ownership of the property transfers, and the related cut-off of recognition of rental income on these assets.
This includes the recognition or write off of any related lease incentives.
Refer to page 84 Audit Committee report, page 118 accounting policy and note 3 on page 124 financial disclosures.
LondonMetric Property Plc 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors report to the members WN 4WVLWV5M ZQK 8ZWXMZ a 8TK KWV QV]ML Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or inuenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Materiality We determined materiality for the Group We determine Company materiality to to be 22.9 million 2017:20.1 million.
We consider EPRA Earnings as a critical performance measure for the group and we applied a lower threshold of 3.0 million 2017: 2.6 million for testing of all balances and classes of transaction which impact that measure, primarily transactions recorded in the income statement other than fair value movements on investment property, development property and derivatives.
Basis for determining materiality Materiality for the Group is based on Materiality for the Company is based 2% 2017: 2% of shareholders equity.
For EPRA Earnings the basis used is 5% 2017:5% of that measure.
Rationale for the benchmark applied As an investment property company, The Company has a significant number the main focus of management is to of investments in subsidiaries which are generate long term capital value from property companies.
These companies the investment property portfolio and, have a focus on generating long term therefore, we consider equity to be the capital value.
Therefore, we consider most appropriate basis for materiality.
equity to be the most appropriate basis for materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of Group materiality 22.9m 1.1million 2017: 1.0 million for the NAV Group, as well as differences below that 1,149.5m threshold that, in our view, warranted Company materiality 17.4m reporting on qualitative grounds.
We EPRA materiality 3.0m also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identied Audit Committee reporting NAV threshold 1.14m when assessing the overall presentation Group materiality of thenancialstatements.
An overview of the scope of ouraudit Our group audit was scoped by The Group is audited by one audit obtaining an understanding of the team, led by the Senior Statutory Group and its environment, including Auditor, responsible for the audit of group-wide controls, and assessing the Company, joint ventures and therisks of material misstatement at the certain subsidiaries.
Our audit work on group level.
subsidiaries and joint ventures is carried out to a materiality which is lower than, Based on that assessment, and and in most cases substantially lower consistent with our conclusion on than, group materiality as set out above.
scoping in the prior year, our full scope Our audit also included testing of the audit is performed on 100% 2017: 100% consolidation process and groupof the Groups net assets, revenue and wide controls.
The Company is located in London, UK and audited directly by the Group audit team.
Our business Performance Responsible Financial Overview Our strategy Our marketplace model review Business Risk Governance statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018113 view, and for such internal control as statements are prepared is consistent Other information the Directors determine is necessary with the financial statements The Directors are responsible for the to enable the preparation of financial the Strategic report and the Directors other information.
The other information statements that are free from material report have been prepared in comprises the information included misstatement, whether due to fraud accordance with applicable in the Annual Report other than the or error.
legal requirements financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
In preparing the financial statements, the In the light of the knowledge and Directors are responsible for assessing the understanding of the Group and the Our opinion on the financial statements Groups and the Companys ability to Company and their environment does not cover the other information continue as a going concern, disclosing obtained in the course of the audit, and, except to the extent otherwise as applicable, matters related to going we have not identied any material explicitly stated in our report, we do concern and using the going concern misstatements in the Strategic report not express any form of assurance basis of accounting unless the Directors orthe Directors report.
either intend to liquidate the Group or the In connection with our audit of the Company or to cease operations, or have Matters on which we are required financial statements, our responsibility no realistic alternative but to do so.
to report by exception is to read the other information and, in Adequacy of explanations received doing so, consider whether the other Auditors responsibilities for the and accounting records information is materially inconsistent audit of the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are with the financial statements or Our objectives are to obtain reasonable required to report to you if, in our opinion: our knowledge obtained in the assurance about whether the financial audit or otherwise appears to be we have not received all the statements as a whole are free from materially misstated.
information and explanations we material misstatement, whether due require for our audit tofraud or error, and to issue an auditors If we identify such material inconsistencies report that includes our opinion.
or apparent material misstatements, we adequate accounting records have Reasonable assurance is a high level are required to determine whether there not been kept by the Company, or ofassurance, but is not a guarantee is a material misstatement in the financial returns adequate for our audit have thatan audit conducted in accordance statements or a material misstatement not been received from branches not with ISAs UK will always detect a of the other information.
If, based on the visited by us material misstatement when it exists.
work we have performed, we conclude the Company financial statements are Misstatements can arise from fraud that there is a material misstatement of not in agreement with the accounting or error and are considered material this other information, we are required records and returns if, individually or in the aggregate, toreport that fact.
We have nothing to report in respect they could reasonably be expected In this context, matters that we are ofthese matters.
to inuence the economic decisions specically required to report to you as of users taken on the basis of these Directors remuneration uncorrected material misstatements of financial statements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we the other information include where we A further description of our responsibilities are also required to report if in our conclude that: for the audit of the financial statements opinion certain disclosures of Directors Fair, balanced and understandable is located on the Financial Reporting remuneration have not been made or the the statement given by the Directors Councils website at: www.
uk part of the Directors remuneration report that they consider the Annual Report .
This description to be audited is not in agreement with the and financial statements taken forms part of our auditors report.
as a whole is fair, balanced and We have nothing to report in respect understandable and provides the Use of our report ofthese matters.
information necessary for shareholders This report is made solely to the to assess the Groups position and Companys members, as a body, in Other matters performance, business model and accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 strategy, is materially inconsistent with Auditor tenure of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit our knowledge obtained in theaudit Following the recommendation of the work has been undertaken so that we Audit Committee reporting the Audit Committee, we were appointed might state to the Companys members section describing the work of the Audit by the Board of LondonMetric Property those matters we are required to state Committee does not appropriately Plc on 19 September 2013 to audit the to them in an auditors report and for address matters communicated by us financial statements for the year ending no other purpose.
To the fullest extent to the Audit Committee 31 March 2014 and subsequent financial permitted by law, we do not accept or periods.
The period of total uninterrupted assume responsibility to anyone other Directors statement of compliance engagement including previous than the Company and the Companys with the UK Corporate Governance renewals and reappointments of the rm members as a body, for our audit work, Code the parts of the Directors is five years, covering the years ending for this report, or for the opinions we statement required under the Listing 31 March 2014 to 31 March 2018. have formed.
Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Consistency of the audit report with Report on other legal and Governance Code containing theadditional report to the provisions specified for review by the regulatory requirements AuditCommittee auditor in accordance with Listing Rule Opinions on other matters prescribed by Our audit opinion is consistent with 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a the Companies Act 2006 the additional report to the Audit departure from a relevant provision of In our opinion, the part of the Directors Committee we are required to provide the UK Corporate Governance Code remuneration report to be audited has inaccordance with ISAs UK.
We have nothing to report in respect been properly prepared in accordance Georgina Robb, FCA Senior statutory auditor ofthese matters.
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor In our opinion, based on the work Responsibilities of Directors London, United Kingdom undertaken in the course of the audit: As explained more fully in the Directors 30 May 2018 responsibilities statement, the Directors the information given in the Strategic are responsible for the preparation of report and the Directors report for the the financial statements and for being financial year for which the financial satisfied that they give a true and fair
