F FIIN NA ANC NCI IA A LL ST STA AT TEME EMEN NTS TS Independent auditors report to the members of Man Group plc Summary of our audit approach Report on the audit of the financial statements The key audit matters that we identified in the Key audit In our opinion: matters current year were: the financial statements of Man Group plc the Parent Valuation of Numeric and Aalto contingent Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true consideration: and and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Accuracy of performance fees Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Within this report, any new key audit matters are the Group financial statements have been properly prepared identified with and any key audit matters which in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards are the same as the prior year identified with.
"IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally statements was $15.8m 2017: $15m which was Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting determined on the basis of 5% of the two-year Standard 101 ""Reduced Disclosure Framework"": and average of the adjusted profit before tax."
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Scoping We performed a full scope audit of 23 2017:18 the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards subsidiaries and audits of specified account the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
balances within a further 10 2017:14 subsidiaries We have audited the financial statements of the Parent Company across eight 2017: seven geographic locations.
and the Group which comprise: Together, this accounts for 99% 2017:99% of the Group income statement: the Groups revenue and 99% 2017:98% of the the Group statement of comprehensive income: Groups profit before tax.
the Group and Parent Company Balance sheets: Significant The impairment assessment of GLG and FRM in the Group and Parent Company Statements of changes changes respect of acquired intangibles and Aalto acquisition in equity: in our accounting matters are no longer considered key the Group cash flow statement: approach audit matters in the current year.
Refer below in the Group and Parent Company statement of accounting the Key Audit Matter section for the rationale.
policies: and the related notes 1 to 29 for the Group and 1 to 7 for the There are no other significant changes in our Parent Company.
approach apart from these key audit matters.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial viability statement reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation Going concern of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law We have reviewed the directors statement in Note 1 to the financial and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their Accepted Accounting Practice.
identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least Basis for opinion twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the under those standards are further described in the auditors Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial of our report.
reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the Groups ability to We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to going concern assessment.
listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm We are required to state whether we have anything material to add that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
M M A A N G N GR RO OUP PLC UP PLC A AN NN NUAL RE UAL REP PORT 2018 ORT 2018 94 94 S STR TRA ATE TEGI GC IC CO COR RP PO OR RAT AT E E F FI IN NA ANC NCI IA A LL S SHA HAR REH EHOL OLD D EER R R REP EPOR ORT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC C EE ST STA AT TE EME MEN NTS TS IN INF FO ORMA RMAT TIO IO N N We confirm that we have nothing material to report, We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Principal risks and viability statement Key audit matters Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the statements of the current period and include the most significant evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups and the assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of to in relation to: resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
the disclosures on pages 31-33 that describe the principal These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, the directors confirmation on page 30 that they have carried and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, In the prior year, we included two key matters that we have not including those that would threaten its business model, future included in the current year: performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 28 as to how they have The audit matter around impairment of the acquired intangibles assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they is no longer considered a key matter as there is significant have done so and why they consider that period to be headroom in GLG: and the carrying value of the FRM intangible appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a assets at 31 December 2018 is below materiality after reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue amortisation for the period.
The headroom between the fair in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period value and carrying value of GLG acquired intangible assets is of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing sufficiently large that the estimates used do not have a significant attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
risk of resulting in material adjustment to the carrying value: and Acquisition accounting of Aalto is not a key audit matter in the We are also required to report whether the directors statement current year as the nature of this matter is such that it will only relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule arise in the year of acquisition.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
All of the key audit matters identified below should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit & Risk Committee discussed on page 60.
Valuation of Numeric and Aalto contingent consideration payable Key audit matter The contingent consideration payable to the former owners of Numeric and Aalto of $172m Dec 2017: $175m description and $37m Dec 2017: $60m respectively is stated at fair value, a key estimate as disclosed in Note 1.
The value is thus dependent on the estimated future run rate revenues as determined by management, detailed in Note 25.
Changes in the valuation of the contingent consideration are recognised in the Group income statement.
Given the level of judgement involved in deriving necessary assumptions and the sensitivity of the fair value, the use of reasonable assumptions is deemed to be a key audit matter.
How the scope of our Our procedures included: audit responded to Assessing related controls: We performed detailed walkthroughs of the contingent consideration valuation the key audit matter processes, assessing the design and implementation of key controls.
We tested the operating effectiveness of governance controls over valuation models.
Working with specialists: We engaged internal valuation specialists to assist in challenging managements assumptions used to calculate the fair value.
Our specialists assisted challenging the forecast Funds Under Management FUM flows and performance against recent industry flows and performance, challenging the discount rate and future growth rate applied through discussions with management based on the results of our reviews.
Tests of detail: We compared the key terms of the acquisition agreements to the valuation models.
We performed a retrospective review of the accuracy of previous forecasts where applicable.
We held a series of discussions with key management across each of the CGUs and the Group who are outside of the finance function, as well as certain Board members of Man Group, comparing these discussions with the modelling for consistency.
We performed a comparison of key assumptions to those applied by peers.
We performed an independent sensitivity analysis to determine the impact of reasonably foreseeable changes to the key assumptions used in the fair value models, to determine whether such changes would result in material revaluation.
Key observations Based on our work, we found the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the Numeric and Aalto contingent consideration are within appropriate ranges.
M MA AN N G GR ROUP PLC OUP PLC A AN NNUAL RE NUAL REPORT 2018 PORT 2018 95 95 F FIIN NA ANC NCI IA A LL ST STA AT TEME EMEN NTS TS Independent auditors report to the members of Man Group plc continued Accuracy of performance fees Performance fees are manually calculated as they are performed less frequently and are more complicated Key audit matter description than management fee calculations, increasing the relative risk of misstatement.
The performance fees require the accurate implementation of methodologies as set out in the governing documents which are bespoke for each client or fund.
The value of performance fees recorded in the year is $126m 2017: $287m.
The performance fee calculation require judgmental interpretations such as the treatment of client flows around the crystallisation dates or in-period flows within the calculations, and the use of estimated valuations as reported fee bases, which can change after the period end.
The accounting policy for performance fee revenues is detailed in Note 2.
How the scope of our Our procedures included: audit responded to the Assessing related controls: We performed detailed walkthroughs of the performance fee processes, key audit matter assessing the design and operating effectiveness of key controls.
Tests of detail: We independently agreed a sample of calculations to governing documents and source documentation, verifying the calculation methodology and the accuracy of the inputs used in the calculation for example, fee rates, crystallisation dates, fund product profit and relevant benchmarks, challenging any judgements made when interpreting governing documents.
For all estimates subsequently finalised and invoiced after the year end, we assessed the amounts invoiced against the accrued estimate at the yearend in mid-February.
Based on our work, performance fee revenues are not materially misstated.
Key observations Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality $15.8m 2017: $15m $6m 2017: $6m Basis for determining 5% of the two-year average adjusted profit before 3% of Total shareholders funds, capped at 40% materiality tax PBT of the Group financial statements materiality.
Rationale for the Group financial statements: benchmark applied Adjusted PBT is a key alternative performance measure reconciled to statutory profit on page 143 of this annual report.
Adjusted PBT is a relevant benchmark as it is a key figure used by analysts in assessing the performance of the business.
It is closely correlated with the Groups cash earnings.
We have determined that a profit-based benchmark is most appropriate for listed investment management companies and this is consistent with benchmarks used by Mans peers.
Performance fees are variable and can fluctuate significantly year on year.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, performance fees of $126m have been recorded in comparison to $287m in 2017.
As a result, we have taken an average of the current year and prior year adjusted profit before tax $251m and $384m respectively in order to create a more stable basis.
Parent Company financial statements: Total shareholders funds is generally considered as an appropriate benchmark for holding companies.
The Parent Company does not generate external income and its main purpose is to hold investments in the underlying subsidiaries of the Group.
We have also considered the year on year movement on this balance and deem it to be a constant base, therefore this is a suitable benchmark to use.
As this yielded a materiality in excess of the component materiality, we applied the component materiality.
We perform a full scope audit of the Parent Company as part of the Group audit.
The materialities of components of the Group are determined with reference to each components contribution to Group PBT on an absolute basis.
M M A A N G N GR RO OUP PLC UP PLC A AN NN NUAL RE UAL REP PORT 2018 ORT 2018 96 96 S STR TRA ATE TEGI GC IC CO COR RP PO OR RAT AT E E F FI IN NA ANC NCI IA A LL S SHA HAR REH EHOL OLD D EER R R REP EPOR ORT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC C EE ST STA AT TE EME MEN NTS TS IN INF FO ORMA RMAT TIO IO N N Materiality $m Revenue Full audit scope 94% Group materiality $15.8m specified audit procedure 5% Review at group level 1% Component materiality range to $0.2m to $10.2m 99% Audit Committee reporting threshold $0.79m Adjusted average PBT Group materiality profit before tax We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report Full audit scope 94% to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $790k 2017: specified audit procedure 5% $750k, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, Review at group level 1% warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit & Risk committee on disclosure matters that we identified 99% when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit We perform our global scoping assessment on an individual entity by entity basis to determine the significant components or specified balances which should be subject to testing.
In doing so, we perform both a quantitative and qualitative assessment of all entities within the consolidated Group.
Our quantitative assessment is primarily based on each entitys PBT and revenue, however a Total assets further assessment is performed to determine whether sufficient Full audit scope 92% coverage has been obtained.
Our qualitative assessment is based specified audit procedure 7% on our understanding of the entities obtained from prior years and Review at group level 1% current years events and any significant risks or management interest associated with each entity.
Specific to our considerations is managements strategy for the Group and we continue to re-assess 99% where we focus our efforts as the business continues to evolve.
Based on that assessment, which is consistent with the prior year, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at eight geographical locations.
This included the full audit of 23 2017: 18 subsidiaries across the UK, the US, Switzerland, Ireland, the Cayman Islands and the Channel Islands.
A further 10 2017: 14 The Group audit team has developed a programme of planned subsidiaries across Hong Kong, the US, the Channel Islands and visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor Australia were subject to an audit of specified account balances or a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the locations where the Group audit scope is focused on a rotational risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of Man Groups basis.
During the current year visits were made to New York, in operations at those locations.
All other subsidiaries were subject to addition to the UK.
Regular communications were also maintained analytical review procedures.
with the remaining geographical locations.
Books and records for subsidiaries located within Ireland, the Cayman Islands, Australia These eight 2017: seven geographical locations represent the and the Channel Islands are maintained within the UK and are principal business units and account for 99% 2017: 98% of Man audited by the Group audit team.
Groups total assets, 99% 2017: 99% of Man Groups revenue and 99% 2017: 98% of the Groups profit before tax on an absolute basis.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the 33 2017: 32 subsidiaries was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from $0.2m to $10.2m 2017: $0.2m to $9.75m.
There has been no change in our approach to the testing at the Parent Company level.
M MA AN N G GR ROUP PLC OUP PLC A AN NNUAL RE NUAL REPORT 2018 PORT 2018 97 97 F FIIN NA ANC NCI IA A LL ST STA AT TEME EMEN NTS TS Independent auditors report to the members of Man Group plc continued Other information Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other financial statements information comprises the information included in the annual report, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the financial statements.
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement www.
This description of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
forms part of our auditors report.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to Extent to which the audit was considered capable you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information of detecting irregularities, including fraud include where we conclude that: We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Fair, balanced and understandable the statement financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design given by the directors that they consider the annual report and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to and understandable and provides the information necessary for provide a basis for our opinion.
shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, Identifying and assessing potential risks related to business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our irregularities knowledge obtained in the audit: or In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in Audit & Risk committee reporting the section describing the respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance work of the Audit & Risk committee does not appropriately with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk committee: or enquiring of management, internal audit, and the Audit & Risk Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting Governance Code the parts of the directors statement documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys relating to: compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with regulations and whether they were aware of any instances Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from of non-compliance: a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
fraud: and Responsibilities of directors the internal controls established to mitigate risks related As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial discussing among the engagement team including significant statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, component audit teams and involving relevant internal and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary specialists, including tax, valuations, pensions and IT specialists to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
statements and any potential indicators of fraud: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on those for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to laws and regulations that have a direct effect on the financial continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters statements or that could have a fundamental effect on the related to going concern and using the going concern basis of operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group considered in this context include the UK Companies Act, or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, alternative but to do so.
pensions legislation, tax legislation and matters regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority the Groups lead regulator.
In addition, compliance with terms of the Groups regulatory capital requirements were fundamental to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
M M A A N G N GR RO OUP PLC UP PLC A AN NN NUAL RE UAL REP PORT 2018 ORT 2018 98 98 S STR TRA ATE TEGI GC IC CO COR RP PO OR RAT AT E E F FI IN NA ANC NCI IA A LL S SHA HAR REH EHOL OLD D EER R R REP EPOR ORT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC C EE ST STA AT TE EME MEN NTS TS IN INF FO ORMA RMAT TIO IO N N Audit response to risks identified Matters on which we are required to report by exception As a result of performing the procedures above, we identified Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records key audit matters regarding the accounting estimates made by Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, management for the valuation of the Numeric and Aalto contingent in our opinion: consideration payable: and the accuracy of performance fees.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Judgments and decisions made by management regarding these require for our audit: or accounting estimates have the potential for bias which represents adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks received from branches not visited by us: or identified included the following: the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
laws and regulations discussed above: Directors remuneration enquiring of management, the Audit & Risk Committee and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have and claims: not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material and returns.
misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence Other matters with HMRC and the Financial Conduct Authority: and Auditor tenure in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk committee, controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2014 adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
reappointments of the firm is five years, covering the years We communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and ending 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2018. potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including Consistency of the audit report with the additional report internal specialist and significant component audit teams, and to the audit & risk committee remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
audit & risk committee we are required to provide in accordance Report on other legal and regulatory requirements with ISAs UK.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Use of our report Act 2006 This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state Companies Act 2006. to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume the audit: responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys the information given in the strategic report and the directors members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the report for the financial year for which the financial statements opinions we have formed.
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
David Barnes Senior statutory auditor In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained Statutory Auditor in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material London, United Kingdom misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
1 March 2019 M MA AN N G GR ROUP PLC OUP PLC A AN NNUAL RE NUAL REPORT 2018 PORT 2018 99 99
