68 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN OUR OPINION: BASIS FOR OPINION the financial statements give a true We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and fair view of the state of the groups ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further and of the parent companys affairs as described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements at 31 March 2018 and of the groups section of our report.
profit for the 52 weeks then ended: We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the the group financial statements have ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, been properly prepared in accordance including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we with International Financial Reporting have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were European Union and IFRSs as issued not provided to the group or the parent company.
by the International Accounting We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to Standards Board IASB : provide a basis for our opinion.
the parent company financial statements have been properly SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union KEY AUDIT MATTERS SCOPING and as applied in accordance with The key audit matters that we identified in We performed a full scope audit on three the provisions of the Companies the current year were: components of the business UK, India and Act 2006: and Ireland representing 97% of the Groups Reporting financial performance: the financial statements have been revenue, 99% of the Groups adjusted profit prepared in accordance with the Accounting for the UK store before tax, 95% of the Groups profit before requirements of the Companies rationalisation programme: tax and 86% of the Groups net assets.
Act 2006 and, as regards the group Impairment of UK store assets: financial statements, Article 4 of SIGNIFICANT CHANGES the IAS Regulation.
UK Clothing & Home inventory provision: IN OUR APPROACH Retirement benefits: and Our audit approach is consistent with the We have audited the financial statements previous year, with the exception of: of Marks and Spencer Group plc the Manual adjustments to reported revenue.
parent company and its subsidiaries Accounting for the UK store Within this report the group which comprise: rationalisation programme has been Any new key audit matters included as a new key audit matter due the Consolidated Income Statement: are identified with to the level of estimation uncertainty the Consolidated Statement of as disclosed in Note 1 and the level Any key audit matters which Comprehensive Income: of audit effort required in evaluating are the same as the prior managements estimate: the Consolidated and Company year identified with Statements of Financial Position: Exit costs of certain wholly owned MATERIALITY international businesses has been the Consolidated and Company removed as a key audit matter as Statements of Changes in Equity: The materiality that we used for the group the Groups international closure financial statements was 24.5 million the Consolidated and Company programme is substantially complete: which was determined on the basis of 5% Statements of Cash Flows: adjusted profit before tax excluding certain Accounting for supplier rebates has the Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow items based on their nature.
We capped been removed as a key audit matter due to Movement in Net Debt: and materiality to 24.5 million so that it was to the limited level of judgement: and not higher than the prior period given the related notes 1 to 28 and C1 to C6.
In the current period India and Ireland the groups trading performance in the were subject to full scope audits The financial reporting framework that current period.
and France had specific audit work has been applied in their preparation is performed in respect of the remaining applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the store closure provision.
The change European Union and, as regards the parent compared with the previous period company financial statements, as applied reflects the reduction in scale of the in accordance with the provisions of the groups owned international business.
69 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT GOING CONCERN PRINCIPAL RISKS AND the directors explanation on page 21 VIABILITY STATEMENT as to how they have assessed the We have reviewed the directors statement prospects of the group, over what in note 1 to the financial statements about Based solely on reading the directors period they have done so and why they whether they considered it appropriate statements and considering whether they consider that period to be appropriate, to adopt the going concern basis of were consistent with the knowledge we and their statement as to whether they accounting in preparing them and their obtained in the course of the audit, including have a reasonable expectation that identification of any material uncertainties the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the group will be able to continue in to the groups and companys ability to the directors assessment of the groups and operation and meet its liabilities as continue to do so over a period of at least the companys ability to continue as a going they fall due over the period of their twelve months from the date of approval concern, we are required to state whether assessment, including any related of the financial statements.
we have anything material to add or draw disclosures drawing attention to any attention to in relation to: necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention the disclosures on pages 22-24 We are also required to report whether to in relation to that statement required that describe the principal risks and the directors statement relating to the by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the explain how they are being managed prospects of the group required by Listing statement is materially inconsistent with or mitigated: Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
our knowledge obtained in the audit.
the directors confirmation on page 22 We confirm that we have nothing that they have carried out a robust We confirm that we have nothing material material to report, add or draw attention assessment of the principal risks facing to report, add or draw attention to in to in respect of these matters.
the group, including those that would respect of these matters.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
KEY AUDIT MATTER REPORTING FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 1 KEY AUDIT MATTER DESCRIPTION The Group has reported adjusted profits m 5 of 581 million, which is derived from 13 581 13 15 600 18 31 statutory profit before tax of 67 million 35 63 and a number of adjustments for items 321 which the company considers meet 400 their definition of an adjusting item.
Judgement is exercised by management in determining the classification of items 200 as adjusting items.
This is a significant 67 issue considered by the Audit Committee on page 38.
0 Statutory UK Store UK Store M&S UK Other IT UK Pay and International Adjusted PBT Estate impairments Bank Reorganisation Restructure Logistics Pensions PBT Explanations of each adjustment are set and write-o s out in note 5 to the financial statements and are summarised in the graphic below: In calculating adjusted profit, we consider that there is a risk of: items being included in the adjustments inappropriately, distorting the reported adjusted earnings: and items being omitted from the adjustments which are material, one-off or significant in nature which distort the reported adjusted earnings.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE KEY AUDIT MATTER For adjusted profits, we evaluated the We assessed all items, either highlighted item with the Audit Committee and appropriateness of the inclusion of items, by management or identified through the any disclosure considerations.
both individually and in aggregate, within course of our audit, which were regarded Key observations adjusting items, including assessing the as significant in nature or value, but We are satisfied that the items excluded consistency of items included year on included within adjusted profit to from adjusted profit, and the related year and ensuring adherence to IFRS determine whether these are not material disclosure of these items in the financial requirements and latest Financial either individually or in aggregate.
For all adjustments recorded in calculating We also agreed a sample of these items profits before adjusting items, we to supporting evidence.
discussed the appropriateness of the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 70 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTERS CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTER ACCOUNTING FOR THE UK STORE RATIONALISATION PROGRAMME 2 KEY AUDIT MATTER DESCRIPTION On 8 November 2017, as part of the Interim shortened economic lives of the store The accuracy and completeness of the Results statement, the Group announced assets and, for certain stores, the closure list of affected stores and anticipated the acceleration of the UK store of the store prior to lease expiry.
Where the closure dates: rationalisation programme, including affected store has been formally approved The appropriateness of specific closures, space reduction and relocations.
or publicly announced, all associated assumptions in the discounted cash flow At 31 March 2018, the Group had identified restructuring provisions including any models, including sublet income, sublet a number of stores for potential closure, lease exit and redundancy costs have lease incentives, void periods, freehold space reduction or relocation, and been recognised.
Where the closure of sales proceeds and store closure costs: recognised a charge of 321 million for the affected store has not been formally impairments, accelerated depreciation approved or publicly announced, The mechanical accuracy of the and associated provisions.
Further detail impairment charges are recognised to the discounted cash flow models and of the charge is set out in note 5.
This is extent that the stores cash flows do not integrity of source data such as lease a significant issue considered by the support the carrying value, with an terms and rental values : and Audit Committee on page 38. onerous contract provision being The accuracy and completeness of recognised where appropriate.
For each of the stores expected to be associated provisions, including impacted by the programme, the We pinpointed our key audit matter to the provisions for dilapidations and strip company prepared a discounted cash following elements of accounting for the out costs, onerous contracts for lossmaking stores, and restructuring where flow model to determine the required UK store rationalisation programme: impairments and provisions to reflect the closures have been publicly announced.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE KEY AUDIT MATTER We focused our audit work on assessing the companys store exit model and evaluating the appropriateness of the key assumptions used in calculating the charge of 321 million.
As part of our audit procedures, we: Made inquiries of management and Evaluated the companys judgements Evaluated the completeness of reviewed property board minutes for a sample of properties in required provisions for a sample of to evaluate the accuracy and consultation with retail real estate stores based on the status of the completeness of the store closure experts and with reference to store in the closure programme.
list, and considered the commercial benchmarked external data: Key observations rationale for exiting certain stores Tested the mechanical accuracy of We are satisfied with the companys whilst excluding other poor performing the cash flow models and other estimate of the impairment charge but stores from the store closure list: key calculations: note that this is at the prudent end of our Inspected the minutes of Board acceptable range.
The disclosure of the Checked the integrity of lease data to meetings and relevant sub-committees: closure provisions recorded in the financial original lease agreements for a sample statements is appropriate.
Inspected supporting documentation of properties: for each assumption in the store exit We have reported to the Audit Committee Recalculated the provisions required for model which included lease agreements, where improvements are required to key a sample of stores and checked the agent valuations, surveyor plans and internal review controls over store closures mechanical accuracy of provision rent invoices: and significant property transactions.
calculations: and 71 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 KEY AUDIT MATTERS CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTER IMPAIRMENT OF UK STORE ASSETS 3 KEY AUDIT MATTER DESCRIPTION The Group held 2,979 million of UK store involve a high degree of estimation The company considers that each retail assets at 31 March 2018 in respect of stores uncertainty as disclosed in Note 1 store constitutes its own cash generating not considered for closure in the UK store particularly in light of current retail unit CGU, with the exception of the rationalisation programme.
outlet stores which are used to clear old has undertaken an annual assessment season Clothing and Home inventories The key assumptions applied by the of indicators of impairment in respect stock at a discount.
The outlet stores are directors in the impairment reviews are: of these stores and has recognised an considered to represent one CGU in impairment charge in the year of forecast periods in the context of aggregate and strategic stores are 12 million.
This is a significant issue strategic decisions made to exit a evaluated as part of a country-wide considered by the Audit Committee on location: impairment review.
page 38. future revenue growth: The groups accounting policy sets out a As described in note 15 of the financial relevant shelter period for new stores to gross margin: statements, the company has estimated be taken into account when assessing the recoverable amount of store assets store costs, including the impact of the indicators of impairment during initial based on value in use calculations.
These National Living Wage: and years of trading to enable the store to rely on certain assumptions and estimates establish itself in the market.
of future trading performance which HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE KEY AUDIT MATTER We considered the appropriateness of the benchmark data: were trading significantly below the methodology applied by the company in original case, we considered the evidence comparing forecast growth rates to calculating the impairment charges, and available to support future improvements economic data: and the judgements applied in determining in performance, specifically by assessing the CGUs of the business.
In addition, we evaluating the information included in the trading plans and actions being taken assessed the design and implementation the impairment models through our on an individual store basis.
of controls in respect of the impairment knowledge of the business gained Key observations review process, and considered the through reviewing trading plans, We assessed the level of impairment adequacy of disclosures made in the strategic initiatives, minutes of property recorded in respect of the UK business financial statements.
board and investment committee and are satisfied that the judgements meetings, and meeting with regional We assessed the impairment models and applied by the company and the level store managers and senior trading calculations by: of impairments recorded in the year managers from key product categories are appropriate.
checking the mechanical accuracy of and our retail industry knowledge.
the impairment models: We assessed the appropriateness of the assessing the discount rates applied to shelter period for each store opened within the impairment reviews with support that time frame, and compared the original from our internal valuations specialist investment case for the store against its and comparing the rates to our internal current trading performance.
Where stores FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 72 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTERS CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTER UK CLOTHING & HOME INVENTORY PROVISION 4 KEY AUDIT MATTER DESCRIPTION At 31 March 2018, the Group held UK apply judgement in determining the provisions within UK Clothing & Home to Clothing & Home inventories of 591 appropriate provisions for obsolete stock require the most judgement, with the risk million 2017: 541 million.
As described and stock below cost based upon a increased due to recent trading in the Accounting Policies in note 1 to detailed analysis of old season inventory performance and the increase in gross the Financial Statements, inventories and net realisable value below cost based inventory.
This is a significant issue are carried at the lower of cost and net upon plans for inventory to go into sale.
considered by the Audit Committee on realisable value.
As a result, the directors We consider the assessment of inventory page 38.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE KEY AUDIT MATTER We obtained assurance over the assessing the validity, accuracy compared to the current purchasing appropriateness of the companys and completeness of the information strategy and ranging plans: and assumptions applied in calculating the used by management in computing testing the validity and completeness value of the inventory provisions by: the provision: of the stock flags and season codes performing audit analytics on stock verifying the mathematical accuracy applied to individual inventory items.
holding and movement data to identify and logic of the models underpinning Key observations product lines with indicators of low the respective provisions: The results of our testing were satisfactory stock turn and post-period negative meeting with buyers to validate the and we concur that the level of UK margin sales: assumptions applied by the company inventory provisions is appropriate.
KEY AUDIT MATTER RETIREMENT BENEFITS 5 KEY AUDIT MATTER DESCRIPTION As described in the Accounting Policies in of 9,030 million 2017: 9,433 million.
The increase decrease in scheme surplus note 1 and in note 11 to the Financial 8,908m of this liability relates to the caused by a change in each of the key Statements, the Group has a defined UK scheme.
assumptions is set out below: benefit pension plan for its UK employees.
2017 2018 Our key audit matter was pinpointed to This scheme is closed to new entrants and m m the valuation of UK scheme liabilities as it is benefits no longer accrue to members A decrease in the discount sensitive to changes in key assumptions following the move of all active members rate of 0.25% 70 70 such as the discount rate, inflation and to deferred members on 1 April 2017.
A decrease in the inflation mortality estimates.
rate of 0.25% 25 20 At 31 March 2018, the Group recorded a net The setting of these assumptions is A decrease in the average life retirement benefit asset of 959 million complex and an area of significant expectancy of one year 305 370 2017: 702 million, being the net judgement: changes in any of these of scheme assets of 9,989 million This is a significant issue considered by the assumptions can lead to a material 2017: 10,135 million and scheme liabilities Audit Committee on page 38. movement in the net surplus.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE KEY AUDIT MATTER We evaluated the directors assessment of With support from our own actuarial Key observations the assumptions made in the valuation of specialists, we considered the process We are satisfied that all assumptions the scheme liabilities, and evaluated the applied by the Groups actuaries, the scope applied in respect of the valuation of the information contained within the actuarial of the valuation performed and the key liabilities is appropriate.
valuation reports for each scheme.
We assumptions applied and evaluated assessed the design and implementation their expertise.
We benchmarked and of controls in respect of the pension performed a sensitivity analysis on the scheme valuation process.
key variables in the valuation model.
73 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 KEY AUDIT MATTERS CONTINUED KEY AUDIT MATTER MANUAL ADJUSTMENTS TO REPORTED REVENUE 6 KEY AUDIT MATTER DESCRIPTION As described in the Accounting Policies in returns customers are entitled to becoming more significant note 1 to the Financial Statements, the return most products up to 35 days in determining the level of groups revenue recognition policies after purchase, giving rise to a risk provision required.
require the directors to make a number of that sales recognised during the period There is the potential for possible adjustments and estimates in determining will be reversed in the next financial manipulation of the rates applied to the the reported revenue for the period.
The directors apply judgement companys estimate of gift card and The most significant adjustments are: in determining the provision required voucher non-redemptions and customer for returns based on actual sales gift cards and vouchers the directors returns given the significant amount of data and recent product return rates.
apply an expected redemption rate judgement involved.
Returns from online sales are commonly to the total value of gift cards at a higher level than traditional store This is a significant issue considered by and vouchers in issue based on retailing, resulting in this judgement the Audit Committee on page 38. historic trends.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT RESPONDED TO THE KEY AUDIT MATTER We have considered each revenueFor the key assumptions used in the gift Key observations impacting manual adjustment, and card and voucher, and loyalty scheme We are satisfied that the key assumptions assessed the appropriateness of the provisions, we assessed the historic rates applied in calculating the returns, gift card, assumptions and judgements applied of redemption and compared these to voucher and loyalty scheme provisions are in deriving the material adjustments to the directors judgements.
appropriate although note managements revenue.
We assessed the design and judgements are at the prudent end of our We assessed the appropriateness of implementation of controls in respect of acceptable range.
the methodology and inputs used in these revenue judgements, in addition to calculating the returns provision.
testing the effectiveness of key revenue controls operating across the UK business.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 74 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of Parent company financial Group financial statements statements misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic Materiality 24.5 million 2017: 24.5 million 22.1 million decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable 2017: 22.1 million person would be changed or influenced.
Basis for Group materiality was based on 5% reported We used 3% of net We use materiality both in planning the determining adjusted profit before tax of 581 million excluding assets as the basis of scope of our audit work and in evaluating materiality certain items based on their nature.
The profit materiality and then the results of our work.
used in our determination was 520 million.
further capped this The items we excluded from our determination at 90% of Group Based on our professional judgement, we are listed below and explained further in note 5 materiality.
determined materiality for the financial to the financial statements: statements as a whole as follows: M&S Bank PPI charge 35 million The materiality applied by the component auditors for full scope audits see below Logistics restructuring 13 million ranged from 2.2 million to 22.1 million UK store impairments and associated charges 2017: 2.5 million to 22.5 million within 63 million adjusting item in note 5 depending on the scale of the components 13 million operations and our assessment of risks specific to each location.
We capped materiality to 24.5 million so that it was not higher than the prior period given the groups We agreed with the Audit Committee trading performance in the current period.
that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1 million Rationale Adjusted profit before tax has been used as it is The Parent Company 2017: 1 million for the group and parent for the the primary measure of performance used by acts principally as a Group materiality company, as well as differences below benchmark the group.
We have used adjusted profit measures holding company and 176m 24.5m that threshold that, in our view, warranted applied that exclude certain items from our determination therefore net assets is reporting on qualitative grounds.
We to aid the consistency and comparability of our a key measure.
Component also report to the Audit Committee on materiality base each year.
PBT materiality range 24.5m disclosure matters that we identified when Group materiality 2.5m to 22.5m assessing the overall presentation of the MATERIALITY financial statements.
Audit Committee reporting threshold Group materiality 520m 1m 24.5m Adjusted PBT Component PBT for determining materiality range 24.5m materiality Group materiality 2.2m to 22.1m 520m Audit Committee reporting threshold 1m 75 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our group audit was scoped by obtaining At the parent entity level we also tested component team.
During the course of our an understanding of the group and its the consolidation process and carried out audit, the group audit team, conducted 15 environment, including group-wide analytical procedures to confirm our distribution centre and 35 retail store visits controls, and assessing the risks of material conclusion that there were no significant in the UK to understand the current trading misstatement at the group level.
risks of material misstatement of the performance and, at certain locations, aggregated financial information of the performed tests of internal controls and Based on our assessment we focused our remaining components not subject to a validated levels of inventory held.
group audit scope on the retail businesses full audit.
in the UK, Republic of Ireland and India, We operate a programme of planned visits 3% 5% which were subject to a full audit.
We also to overseas locations so that a senior performed audit procedures on specific member of the group audit team visits each balances for the remaining store exit of the components subject to a full audit provisions in France.
This work was 95% or specific audit procedures at least once 97% performed by the group audit team.
In the every two years, and the most significant of REVENUE PROFIT BEFORE TAX prior period, China, Hong Kong and Czech them at least once a year.
The programme 1% 14% Republic were also subject to a full audit of visits are set out below, with future years but our scope changed following the subject to change as the Groups groups reduction in scale of its owned operations continue to evolve.
2017 2018 2019 ADJUSTED PROFIT NET ASSETS Component Last year This year Next year BEFORE TAX These components were selected to India Full audit scope specified audit procedures and provide an appropriate basis for review at group level Republic of Ireland undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The most significant component of the In addition to our programme of planned All other wholly owned and joint venture group is its retail business in the United visits, we send detailed instructions to our businesses were subject to analytical review Kingdom, which accounts for 90% 2017: component audit teams, include them in procedures.
Whilst we audit the revenues 89% of the Groups reported revenue of our team briefings, discuss their risk received by the Group from franchise 10,698 million, and generates operating assessment, attend closing meetings, operations, which account for 3% 2017: 3% profit of 23 million 2017: 328 million.
The and review their component reporting.
of the Groups revenue, we do not audit the group audit team performs the audit of the underlying franchise operations as part of UK business without the involvement of a our Group audit.
OTHER INFORMATION The directors are responsible for the statements or a material misstatement Audit committee reporting the section other information.
The other information of the other information.
If, based on the describing the work of the audit comprises the information included in work we have performed, we conclude committee does not appropriately the annual report other than the financial that there is a material misstatement of address matters communicated by us statements and our auditors report thereon.
this other information, we are required to to the audit committee: or report that fact.
Our opinion on the financial statements Directors statement of compliance with does not cover the other information and, In this context, matters that we are the UK Corporate Governance Code the except to the extent otherwise explicitly specifically required to report to you as parts of the directors statement required stated in our report, we do not express any uncorrected material misstatements of under the Listing Rules relating to the form of assurance conclusion thereon.
the other information include where we companys compliance with the UK conclude that: Corporate Governance Code containing In connection with our audit of the financial provisions specified for review by the statements, our responsibility is to read Fair, balanced and understandable auditor in accordance with Listing Rule the other information and, in doing so, the statement given by the directors 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a consider whether the other information is that they consider the annual report and departure from a relevant provision of materially inconsistent with the financial financial statements taken as a whole is the UK Corporate Governance Code.
statements or our knowledge obtained fair, balanced and understandable and in the audit or otherwise appears to be provides the information necessary We have nothing to report in respect materially misstated.
for shareholders to assess the groups of these matters.
position and performance, business If we identify such material inconsistencies model and strategy, is materially or apparent material misstatements, we are inconsistent with our knowledge required to determine whether there is a obtained in the audit: or material misstatement in the financial FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 76 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED USE OF OUR REPORT RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the directors In preparing the financial statements, the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with responsibilities statement, the directors are directors are responsible for assessing the Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act responsible for the preparation of the groups and the parent companys ability 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken financial statements and for being satisfied to continue as a going concern, disclosing that they give a true and fair view, and for as applicable, matters related to going so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to such internal control as the directors concern and using the going concern basis state to them in an auditors report and for determine is necessary to enable the of accounting unless the directors either no other purpose.
To the fullest extent preparation of financial statements that intend to liquidate the group or the parent are free from material misstatement, company or to cease operations, or have permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than whether due to fraud or error.
no realistic alternative but to do so.
the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable considered material if, individually or in assurance about whether the financial the aggregate, they could reasonably be statements as a whole are free from expected to influence the economic material misstatement, whether due to decisions of users taken on the basis of fraud or error, and to issue an auditors these financial statements.
report that includes our opinion.
A further description of our responsibilities Reasonable assurance is a high level of for the audit of the financial statements is assurance, but is not a guarantee that located on the Financial Reporting an audit conducted in accordance with Councils website at: frc.
uk ISAs UK will always detect a material .
This description misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements forms part of our auditors report.
can arise from fraud or error and are REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Auditor tenure ACT 2006 Adequacy of explanations received Following the recommendation of the audit In our opinion the part of the directors and accounting records committee, we were appointed by the remuneration report to be audited has Under the Companies Act 2006 we are shareholders on 8 July 2014 to audit the been properly prepared in accordance required to report to you if, in our opinion: financial statements for the period ending with the Companies Act 2006.
28 March 2015 and subsequent financial we have not received all the information periods.
The period of total uninterrupted In our opinion, based on the work and explanations we require for our engagement including previous renewals undertaken in the course of the audit: audit: or and reappointments of the firm is 4 years, the information given in the strategic adequate accounting records have not covering the periods ending 28 March 2015 report and the directors report for the been kept by the parent company, or to 31 March 2018. financial year for which the financial returns adequate for our audit have not statements are prepared is consistent been received from branches not visited Consistency of the audit report with the with the financial statements: and by us: or additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the the strategic report and the directors the parent company financial statements additional report to the audit committee report have been prepared in accordance are not in agreement with the accounting we are required to provide in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and We have nothing to report in respect understanding of the group and the parent of these matters.
company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not Directors remuneration identified any material misstatements in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also the strategic report or the directors report.
required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
IAN WALLER SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF DELOITTE LLP STATUTORY AUDITOR, LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM 22 May 2018
