Corporate governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Marshalls plc Opinion In our opinion: the Financial Statements of Marshalls plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: and the related Notes 1 to 42.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key audit matters the valuation of the inventory provision: acquisition accounting, in particular the identification and valuation of intangible assets and fair value of other assets and liabilities acquired as part of the Edenhall Group acquisition: and revisions to provisional fair value adjustments on the CPM Group acquisition in 2017.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
The materiality that we used for the Group Financial Statements was 3.1 million which was determined on Materiality the basis of 5 per cent of profit before tax.
Full scope audits were performed on all UK components excluding the Edenhall Group.
This accounts for Scoping 96 per cent of group revenue, 96 per cent of group net assets and 98 per cent of profit before tax.
The Group acquired the Edenhall Group during the year and we have identified a key audit matter for the Significant changes current year relating to the acquisition accounting for this transaction, in particular the identification and in our approach valuation of intangible assets and fair values of other assets and liabilities acquired.
We have also refined our key audit matter in relation to the acquisition of CPM Group to be the fair value adjustments made in the current year.
Apart from the above, there have been no other significant changes in our audit approach since the prior year.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Corporate governance Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Marshalls plc Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the Directors Statement in Note 1 to the Financial Statements about whether they We confirm that we considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their have nothing material identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a to report, add or draw period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
attention to in respect of these matters.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors Statements and considering whether they were consistent with the We confirm that we knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the have nothing material Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are to report, add or draw required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: attention to in respect of these matters.
the disclosures on pages 23 to 27 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 24 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 24 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation of the inventory provision The Group is primarily involved in the manufacture and sale of landscape and natural stone products, selling Key audit matter to Public Sector, Commercial and Domestic end users.
It records inventory at the lower of cost and net description realisable value, carrying a large amount of inventories in order to meet customer needs on demand.
The Group offers a wide range of non-perishable products that are manufactured and subsequently stored in large quantities at various locations, and therefore carries a high level of inventories at any given point.
A risk exists that the sales prices of inventories, particularly those which are aged or in excess of specific customer requirements, may need to be discounted before they can be sold.
The risk of discounting, combined with potential costs to move the inventories to a location where demand exists, may result in the inventories being sold at below cost.
The Directors are responsible for making judgements surrounding: the length of time required to sell inventories: the level of discounts necessary to sell inventories: and whether inventories will need to be discounted below their cost price.
Given the significant level of judgement involved, we have also identified this as a potential fraud risk area.
The carrying value of the Groups inventory is 84.4 million, as disclosed in Note 11, and this is noted as an area considered by the Audit Committee in its report on page 52.
Marshalls plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Valuation of the inventory provision continued We have: How the scope of our audit responded to the reviewed business processes surrounding the recording of inventory quantities and managements key audit matter review of the valuation and provisioning of inventory: evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls relating to purchasing, recording of inventory quantities and inventory provisioning across the Group: attended inventory counts at key locations to observe the count procedure being undertaken and inspect the condition of inventories: used data analytic techniques and tests of detail to compare sales value by product line to inventory cost to identify any inventory sold for less than its cost: and we assessed the adequacy of provisions recorded for such items in relation to stock turnover periods including, where relevant, the impact of Brexit.
The results of our testing were satisfactory.
We concur with the basis of valuation of inventory and are Key observations satisfied that the level of inventory provisions is appropriate.
Acquisition accounting The Group completed the acquisition of the entire share capital of the Edenhall Group on 11 December Key audit matter 2018.
The acquisition is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations and this requires description judgement to be applied in the identification and valuation of intangible assets and the determination of other fair value adjustments to the net assets within the acquired business.
This process is inherently complex and a risk exists that intangible assets and other fair value adjustments may be incorrectly identified and valued.
As described in Note 22 to the Financial Statements, the provisional fair value of the net assets acquired has been estimated at 3.0 million and intangible assets have been identified and valued at 3.9 million.
This matter is discussed in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 52.
We have: How the scope of our audit responded to the evaluated the design and implementation of key controls relating to managements process for key audit matter identification and valuation of intangible assets: reviewed the accounting entries recorded by agreeing to managements acquisition accounting paper and workings and the sale and purchase agreement SPA : agreed cash paid in respect of consideration to bank statements and assessed total consideration by reference to the SPA: reviewed forecasts for the Edenhall Group and performed sensitivity analysis to assess whether the contingent consideration recorded is appropriate: reviewed the SPA for any unusual clauses that may have accounting consequences and assessed the completeness of acquisition adjustments: tested the significant fair value adjustments recorded in respect of the business acquired by reference to supporting evidence: used our valuation specialists to review and challenge the process applied by management for determining the separable intangible assets and the appropriateness of the valuation methodologies adopted and the discount rate applied in the valuation calculations: and assessed the basis upon which management determines the useful economic life of each intangible asset, considering any contradictory evidence.
Based on our procedures we concur that the judgements made by management in identifying and Key observations valuing intangible assets within the acquired business are reasonable.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 96 Corporate governance Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Marshalls plc Revisions to provisional fair value adjustments on the CPM acquisition in 2017 The Group acquired CPM Group Limited in the prior year.
The acquisition was accounted for in accordance Key audit matter with the requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations and this required judgement to be applied in the description determination of fair value adjustments to the net assets within the acquired business.
IFRS 3 allows an adjustment to be made to the fair values of the net assets acquired within the 12 months post acquisition and revisions to provisional fair values require management judgement.
There is a risk that the fair value adjustments made may be incorrectly valued following these revisions.
As disclosed in Note 22 to the Financial Statements, revisions to provisional fair value adjustments made on the CPM Group Limited acquisition were 1.0 million.
This matter is discussed by the Audit Committee on page 52.
We have: How the scope of our audit responded to the evaluated the design and implementation of key controls relating to managements processes: key audit matter tested the significant revisions to provisional fair value adjustments recorded in respect of the business acquired by reference to supporting third party evidence: and assessed the basis upon which management determines that a revision to the initial fair value adjustment is required.
Based on our procedures we concur that the judgements made by management in identifying and Key observations valuing the fair value adjustments within the acquired business are reasonable.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements 3.1 million 2017: 2.5 million.
Materiality 5 per cent 2017: 5 per cent of profit before tax.
0.5 per cent 2017: 0.5 per cent of net assets which Basis for determining was capped at 40 per cent 2017: 40 per cent of materiality Group materiality.
In our professional judgement, profit before tax As a holding company, net assets are considered Rationale for the is the principal benchmark within the Financial to be the primary benchmark.
benchmark applied Statements that is relevant to users of the Financial Statements when assessing performance.
Group materiality 3.1m PBT 62.9m Component materiality range 2.65m to 1m 4 I PBT Group materiality Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.15m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 147,000 2017: 100,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
Marshalls plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement both at the Group and component level.
The Group and Parent Company audits are performed at the Groups head office in Elland, West Yorkshire.
The Group audit team performed the audit of all UK components, but excluding the Edenhall Group.
The UK components, excluding the Edenhall Group, accounted for 96 per cent 2017: 95 per cent of Group revenue, 96 per cent 2017: 99 per cent of Group net assets and 98 per cent 2017: 100 per cent of Group profit before tax.
Edenhall Group and Marshalls NV account for the remaining revenue and net assets of the Group but were not regarded as significant components for our Group audit.
At the Parent Company level, we also tested the consolidation process.
The Group audit team carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining component not subject to audit.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to report included in the Annual Report, other than the Financial Statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors Statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the Auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors Report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Corporate governance Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Marshalls plc Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: and the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations, pensions, IT, regarding how and where fraud might occur in the Financial Statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in revenue recognition due to occurrence and in stock provisioning due to the judgement involved in determining the net realisable value: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the Financial Statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, pensions legislation and tax legislation.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified the valuation of inventory provision as a key audit matter.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matter in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to that key audit matter.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: using data analytics techniques to identify instances where sales postings do not have a matching invoice or despatch note and understanding the reasons: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Marshalls plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Report on other legal and regulatory requirements continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Audit Committee on 20 May 2015 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 4 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2015 to December 2018.
Consistency of the Audit Report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Christopher Robertson Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Manchester, United Kingdom 14 March 2019 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83
