Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Our audit approach Opinion Overview In our opinion: Overall Group materiality: Meggitt PLCs Group financial statements and Company 16.0 million 2017: 17.0 financial statements the financial statements give a true million, based on 5% of and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys underlying profit before tax.
affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Overall Company materiality: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 34.0 million 2017: 35.0 in accordance with International Financial Reporting million, based on 1% of Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: total assets.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally We identified 11 reporting Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting units which, in our view, Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure required a full scope audit Framework, and applicable law : and based on their size or risk.
In the financial statements have been prepared in accordance addition we determined that with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as specified audit procedures regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the were required at a further IAS Regulation.
7 reporting units to address specific risk characteristics or We have audited the financial statements, included within the to provide sufficient overall Annual Report and Accounts 2018 the Annual Report, which Group coverage of particular comprise: the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at financial statement line items.
31 December 2018: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the We used component teams Consolidated cash flow statement, and the Consolidated and in 4 countries to perform a Company statements of changes in equity for the year then combination of full scope ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include audits and specified Materiality a description of the significant accounting policies.
procedures at 11 reporting units, with the Group team Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit performing the remainder.
The Group consolidation, Audit scope Basis for opinion financial statement disclosures We conducted our audit in accordance with International and a number of complex Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
items, prepared by the head office finance function, were Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Key audit Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements audited by the Group matters section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we engagement team.
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis Reporting units where we for our opinion.
performed audit procedures accounted for 61% of Group Independence profit before tax: 62% of Group We remained independent of the Group in accordance with underlying profit before tax: the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the and 80% of Group total assets.
financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Our audit scope provided Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we sufficient appropriate audit have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance evidence as a basis for our with these requirements.
opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that nonaudit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard Goodwill impairment were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in the Directors report, we have Development costs and provided no nonaudit services to the Group or the Company programme participation costs in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. impairment assessments Group.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions Group.
Retirement benefit obligation liabilities Group and Company.
Meggitt PLC 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued The scope of our audit Key audit matters As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit statements.
of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall including fraud audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and Based on our understanding of the Group industry, we directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, identified that the principal risks of noncompliance with laws and any comments we make on the results of our procedures and regulations related to breaches of increasingly complex thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the trade compliance, environmental regulations, health and safety financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion and unethical and prohibited business practices see page 48 thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these of the Annual Report, and we considered the extent to which matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by noncompliance might have a material effect on the financial our audit.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, pensions legislation, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to in scope component teams.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to increase revenue or reduce expenditure, omitting, advancing or delaying recognition of events and transactions that have occurred and management bias in accounting estimates or judgments.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors referred to in the scoping section of our report below, so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors included: Discussions with management, internal audit and the Groups legal and tax advisors, including consideration of known or suspected instances of noncompliance with laws and regulation and fraud: Evaluation of managements controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities, in particular their antibribery controls: Assessment of matters reported on the Groups whistleblowing helpline and the results of managements investigation of such matters: Review of directors meeting minutes: Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to impairment of goodwill, impairment of development costs, environmental provisions, provisions for uncertain tax positions and retirement benefit obligation liabilities see related key audit matters below : Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account combinations or posted by senior management or individuals not authorised to post journals: and Incorporated elements of unpredictability into the audit procedures performed.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Meggitt PLC 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter For all impairment assessments we: Goodwill impairment assessments Group Evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts by Refer also to note 18 of the consolidated financial statements Testing the integrity of the underlying discounted cash pages 154 to 155 flow model: Comparing the forecasts used in the prior year model to The Group holds significant amounts of goodwill 2,035.3m on the actual performance of the business in the current year the balance sheet which is supported by an annual impairment to assess the historical accuracy of the plans and review.
No impairment charge has been recorded against forecasts: and goodwill in the current year.
Comparing the latest board approved budget to the 2019 forecast used in the model and used this as the basis to Our audit focused on the risk that the carrying value of goodwill sensitise each model in line with the scoping criteria set could be overstated.
Tested the discount rates used in the directors impairment Certain assumptions used in the impairment review are assessment as of 30 June 2018, by comparing key inputs, subjective and require estimates to be made to calculate the where relevant, to externally derived data or data for recoverable amount, as determined by value in use, of its cash comparable listed organisations.
We used our specialists in generating units or groups of cash generating units CGUs.
assessing the overall discount rates used by the directors, and The key estimates and assumptions assessed include: observed them to be within our expected range as of 30 June the future cash flow growth assumptions used in the Groups 2018.
Following changes in market conditions in the second most recent budgets and plans for the next five years half of the year our expected range for discount rates as of approved by management the plan : 31 December 2018 increased, resulting in the UK and US rates the growth rate used beyond the period covered by the plan: used by the directors in their June assessment falling below and our revised expected range.
We assessed the directors the discount rate applied to future cash flows.
assessment of whether this change indicated the carrying value may not be recoverable, and confirmed that this was not an impairment trigger.
Considered the use of the longterm GDP growth rate for the countries in which the CGU operates for the growth rate used beyond the period covered by the plan, and observed these to be within our expected range.
We applied the following scoping criteria to identify those CGUs requiring additional audit procedures: CGUs that indicated a shortfall in value in use compared to the total CGU carrying value when the level of underlying profit growth for the period covered by the plans was capped at a weighted average market growth rate, using economic and industry forecasts.
The weighted average market growth rates were derived as follows: For CGUs operating predominantly in the civil aerospace market, we used the civil aerospace capacity longterm trend rate measured in available seat kilometres ASKs : and For CGUs operating predominantly in the defence, energy and other markets, we used territory Gross Domestic Product GDP growth projections, based on our published economic projections.
This identified the EDAC & Advanced Composites CGU for further audit procedures, which has goodwill of 226.7m.
In respect of this CGU, we assessed, in addition to the discount rate set out above, the following key assumptions used in the impairment assessment: Compound annual revenue growth over the five year plan period of approximately 15%.
As this assumed growth is in excess of our weighted average market growth rate as defined above, we obtained corroborating evidence to support this assumption by: Comparing planned revenue growth to past performance.
Over the three year period since acquisition, compound annual revenue growth has been 11%.
The revenue growth in 2018 was 17%, which is in excess of the compound annual revenue growth assumed of 15%: Reviewing the USD750m multiyear contract with from Pratt & Whitney, which secures a portion of the planned growth included in the plan: and Meggitt PLC 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Benchmarking the planned revenue growth against third Goodwill impairment assessments Group continued party market analysis for growth in the advanced composite market for aerospace engines over the period covered by the plan.
Applying these market growth rates to the CGU, based on itscivil aerospace and military market mix, we calculated a growth rate that supports the assumption used.
An average gross margin over the five year plan period of approximately 24%.
We obtained corroborating evidence to support this assumption, by: Identifying the incremental costs incurred in 2018 related to operational challenges experienced in ramping up production to meet higher volume demand and considering the extent to which these costs can be eliminated in future periods.
We examined the normalised gross profit calculations prepared by the directors and obtained support for significant adjustments.
We also assessed the reasonableness of the cost reductions included in the plan related to the production of certain high volume parts being moved to low cost manufacturing facilities.
We consider managements assumptions to be supportable.
Comparing planned gross margin to the actual margins achieved prior to the operational issues in 2018 i. e. in 2016 and 2017 confirmed that the planned gross margin is aligned to performance in those years and so supports the assumptions used.
In respect of the key assumptions, we performed sensitivity analysis to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions which, either individually or collectively, would be required for the goodwill to be impaired.
Our analysis considered the risks that: Volume growth does not meet expectations.
We confirmed that if compound annual revenue growth decreased from 15% to 12%, without any mitigating action on costs, an impairment would be triggered: Incremental costs associated with volume growth continue for longer than had been anticipated.
We confirmed that if the gross margin over the period of the plan reduced from 24% to 21%, without any mitigating action on other operating costs, an impairment would be triggered: and Discount rates increase.
The Group has used a pretax discount rate of 8.6% in 2018 for its impairment testing.
We have confirmed that were the discount rate to increase to 10.1% an impairment would be triggered.
We note the growth assumptions and margin improvements are supportable and therefore no impairment charge was required in 2018.
Given the level of headroom we agree with the directors assessment that additional disclosure is required to demonstrate the sensitivity of the level of headroom to the key assumptions.
We determined that these disclosures appropriately draw attention to the significant areas of estimate and judgement.
Meggitt PLC 122 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We evaluated the directors future cash flow forecasts and the Development costs impairment assessments Group process by which they were drawn up, and tested the integrity Refer also to note 19 of the consolidated financial statements of the underlying discounted cash flow model.
In respect of the page 156 programme impairment assessments tested we: Agreed the fleet forecast data up to 2032 used in calculating The Group holds significant amounts of development costs the programme forecast cash flow to external market 557.1m on the balance sheet.
These intangible assets are forecasts, taking into account the extent to which the Group subject to impairment testing at the individual asset has a solesource position.
We corroborated any significant programme level, at least annually and, where the deviations applied by the directors to supporting evidence.
programme value in use headroom compared to its carrying We assessed fleet forecasts used beyond the period covered value is limited, or if events or changes in circumstances indicate by the external market forecasts, considering average aircraft the carrying value may not be recoverable, more frequently.
lives and trend analysis and considered them to be supported No impairment charge has been recorded against these by the evidence we obtained: balances in the current year.
Agreed the sales price per part to customer contract and did not identify any material exceptions in these tests: Our audit focused on the risk that the carrying value of these Tested the discount rates, by comparing key inputs, where intangible assets could be overstated.
We focused our audit relevant, to externally derived data or data for comparable procedures on those programmes against which the directors listed organisations.
We used our specialists in assessing the hold an impairment provision, those with limited excess of value overall discount rates used, and observed them to be within in use over carrying value and those with a significant carrying our expected range: and value.
Assessed whether the Groups disclosures regarding the extent to which key assumptions would need to change for The key estimates and assumptions assessed were: the recoverable amount to fall below the programme carrying The estimated aircraft or engine volumes fleet forecasts values, in particular in relation to those with a significant and the period over which future cash flows are forecast carrying value.
We determined that these disclosures fleet lives : appropriately draw attention to the significant areas of The sales price per part: and estimate.
The discount rate applied to future cash flows.
Specifically in respect of Dassault Aviations Dassault Falcon 5X 5X programme which was impaired in the prior year, we assessed whether there was any indication that the impairment should be reversed following the Groups selection for Dassaults new Falcon programme, the Falcon 6X 6X.
To assess the directors judgment that there are no indicators that the impairment should be reversed we: Reviewed the contractual terms agreed with Dassault for the 6X.
The contractual terms do not refer to recovery of any previously incurred 5X costs and is clear that amounts contractually receivable relate to the 6X contract: Confirmed that the specification for the two programmes, particularly in respect of increased maximum takeoff landing weight, are different: and Compared the level of forecast development spend required to complete the 6X development to other new programmes the Group has been awarded in recent years.
Meggitt PLC 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Our work on the valuation of environmental liabilities comprised Environmental provisions Group the following: Refer also to note 34 of the consolidated financial statements We confirmed that the Groups external environmental page 169 consultants have sufficient expertise and are qualified and affiliated with the appropriate industry bodies in the The Group has liabilities of 80.6m relating to environmental respective local territory, and are independent of the Group: matters.
We obtained the cost estimates and reports prepared by the Groups external environmental consultants for the most The environmental matters primarily relate to known exposures significant sites.
We assessed the consistency of the cost arising from environmental investigation and remediation of estimates year on year and the level of costs incurred certain sites in the US for which the Group has been identified compared to the prior year estimates to assess the historical as a potentially responsible party under US law.
The liabilities accuracy of the estimates and understand significant changes are based on subjective estimates of the level and timing of to the scope of remediation plans.
We confirmed that the remediation costs, including the period of operating and changes in scope have been appropriately reflected in the monitoring activities required.
Our audit focused on the risk that provision: the provisions in relation to these matters could be understated.
We reconciled the cost estimates and reports to the provision recorded and gained an understanding of all significant The Group has separately recognised insurance and other adjustments applied, such as differences in the period over receivables of 34.1m.
We focused on the required asset which operating and monitoring activities are conducted and recognition criteria being met and recoverability of the application of additional provisions for incremental costs.
We assessed the reasonableness of these, including reviewing historical data where appropriate and consider the provision to be supported by reasonable assumptions: and Evaluated and concluded that the liabilities, related assets and potential exposures were appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
Our work on the valuation of insurance and other receivables comprised the following: We obtained the insurance policies and confirmed the coverage limits: We obtained confirmation from the insurer of the claims and settlements to date and assessed the extent of insurance coverage against the known exposures: We obtained evidence of the settlements and claims which resulted in the recognition of receivables in relation to the environmental provision and found that the evidence obtained supported asset recognition: We obtained evidence of the insurers financial position to assess their ability to meet the policy obligations and consider that this supports the recognition of the insurance receivable: and We performed sensitivity analysis in relation to changes in the timings of costs and incremental increases in costs to assess the recoverability of the insurance receivables.
From the evidence obtained we found the assumptions used to be appropriate.
Meggitt PLC 124 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter In conjunction with our internal UK and international tax Provisions for uncertain tax positions specialists we: Refer also to note 4 of the consolidated financial statements Evaluated the process by which the directors calculated each pages 142 to 144 tax exposure and assessed whether the assumptions they have used, in conjunction with their advisors, in developing The Group has a provision for uncertain tax positions of 39.2m.
the estimated exposure, provided a supportable and reasonable basis to calculate the provision for uncertain tax Estimates have to be made by the directors on the tax positions.
From the evidence obtained we found the treatment of a number of transactions in advance of the ultimate assumptions and methodology used to be appropriate: tax determination being certain.
Considered any tax opinions or other tax advice the Group had received from its tax advisors in relation to the exposures This is due to the complexity of the Groups legal structure identified to determine that the treatment is consistent with including multiple legal entities, the number of tax jurisdictions the advice obtained.
We also considered the evidence of primarily the UK and US in which the Group operates, the recent tax audits and external tax cases which may have an complexity of international tax legislation and the changing tax impact on existing tax exposures.
Based on the work environment.
In addition, uncertainty arises from intergroup performed we found that this support had been appropriately transactions relating to goods, services and internal financing.
considered in determining managements provision: Assessed and formed our own views on the key judgements Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain, with respect to open and uncertain tax positions and the Group establishes provisions based on the directors concluded that the judgements made by the directors were judgement of the probable amount of the liability, or expected materially consistent with our own views in respect of the tax amounts recoverable.
exposures: and Evaluated and concluded that the liabilities and potential Our audit procedures focussed on the risk that conclusion of the exposures were appropriately disclosed in the financial ultimate tax determination by tax authorities is at an amount statements.
materially different to the amount recorded.
We evaluated the assumptions made in relation to the valuation Retirement benefit obligation liabilities Group of the liabilities, with input from our actuarial specialists.
In and parent particular we: Refer also to note 36 of the consolidated financial statements pages 171 to 175 and note 14 of the Company financial Confirmed that the Groups external specialists are qualified statements pages 196 to 197 and affiliated with the appropriate industry bodies in the respective local territory, and are independent of the Group.
The Group has retirement benefit obligations with gross Tested the discount and inflation rate assumptions used by liabilities of 1,224.7m, of which 753.4 is recognised by the comparing them to our internally developed benchmarks, Company.
The liabilities are significant in the context of the based on externally derived data and comparable overall Group and Company balance sheet.
We observed the significant assumptions to be within our expected range: The valuation of retirement benefit obligations requires Compared assumed mortality rates to national and industry significant levels of estimation and technical expertise, including averages.
From the evidence obtained we found the the use of actuarial experts to support the directors in selecting assumptions to be within our expected range and appropriate assumptions.
Small changes in a number of the key methodology used to be appropriate: financial and demographic assumptions used to value the Assessed the assumption for salary increases against the Groups retirement benefit obligation, including discount rates, Groups historical trend and expected future outlook.
inflation rates, salary increases and mortality could have a The assumption used was supported by the evidence we material impact on the calculation of the liability.
obtained: Considered the appropriateness of the methodology used Our audit procedures focussed on the risk that the assumptions to update estimates from the latest actuarial valuation and used result in an understatement of the retirement benefit assessed changes in assumptions in aggregate from the prior obligation.
year to assess the consistency of approach overall.
From the evidence obtained we found the assumptions and methodology used to be appropriate: and Evaluated and concluded that the liabilities and potential exposures were appropriately disclosed in the financial statements.
Meggitt PLC 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued appropriate.
We also performed specified procedures on How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 7 reporting units to address specific risk characteristics or enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial to provide sufficient overall Group coverage of revenue.
In addition to the work performed at the inscope reporting statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and units, there is a substantial amount of work performed at head office by the Group audit engagement team.
The Group controls, and the industry in which they operate.
consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of The Groups accounting process is structured around a local complex items, prepared by the head office finance function, were audited by the Group engagement team.
These included finance function in each of the Groups reporting units.
These functions maintain their own accounting records and controls goodwill, other intangible assets, investments, derivative financial instruments and related hedge accounting, bank and although transactional processing and certain controls for some reporting units are performed at the Groups shared service other borrowings and related finance costs, leases, centres and report to the head office finance team through an environmental provisions and related insurance receivables, certain onerous contracts and other provisions, retirement integrated consolidation system.
benefit obligations, current and deferred tax, sharebased payments and central adjustments raised as part of the In establishing the overall Group audit strategy and plan, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at consolidation process.
the reporting units by the Group engagement team and by These audit procedures accounted for61% of Group profit component auditors from other PwC network firms.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined before tax:62% of Group underlying profit before tax: and 80% of Group total assets key coverage metrics.
As a result the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units so as to be able to conclude whether of its structure and size, the Group also has a large number of sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a small reporting units that, in aggregate, make up a material portion of the key coverage metrics.
These small reporting basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
units are covered by the work performed by the Group audit engagement team, where we perform analytical review For each reporting unit we determined whether we required procedures.
A significant proportion of these remaining an audit of their complete financial information full scope reporting units not selected for local procedures were subject to an analysis of year on year movements, at a level of or whether specified procedures addressing specific risk characteristics or particular financial statement line items would disaggregation to enable a focus on higher risk balances and unusual movements.
Those not subject to analytical review be sufficient.
Those where a full scope audit was required included the largest reporting unit Meggitt Aircraft Braking procedures were individually, and in aggregate, immaterial.
Systems in Akron, determined as individually financially This gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
significant because it contributes more than 15% of the Groups underlying profit before tax.
We performed a full scope audit at a further 10 reporting units, based on their size or risk.
Senior Materiality members of the Group audit engagement team visited a The scope of our audit was influenced by our application selection of these reporting units, including the significant of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for component, to review the work undertaken by component materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, auditors and assess the audit findings.
We held a conference helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, call with the remaining teams to discuss their approach to key timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual audit matters and discuss audit findings.
We performed a financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating detailed review of the working papers for the significant the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate component and other component teams as deemed on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 16.0 million 2017: 17.0 million.
How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied Based on the benchmarks used in the We believe that total assets is the primary Annual Report, underlying profit before measure used by the shareholders in tax is the primary measure used by assessing the performance and position the shareholders in assessing the of the entity and reflects the Companys performance of the Group.
Further, principal activity as a holding company.
we consider it appropriate to eliminate volatility and to preserve the link between materiality and the performance of the underlying business.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.6 million and 14.4 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.80 million Group audit 2017: 0.85 million and 1.70 million Company audit 2017: 1.75 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Meggitt PLC 126 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
or draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered As not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys in preparing the financial statements and the directors ability to continue as a going concern.
For example, the terms identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the European the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, are period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential the financial statements.
implications on the Groups and Companys trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the and of the principal risks that would threaten the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our solvency or liquidity of the Group auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does The directors confirmation on page 46 of the Annual Report not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not that they have carried out a robust assessment of the express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise principal risks facing the Group, including those that would explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent The directors explanation on page 53 of the Annual Report with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we over what period they have done so and why they consider identify an apparent material inconsistency or material that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as financial statements or a material misstatement of the other they fall due over the period of their assessment, including information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other qualifications or assumptions.
information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and we also considered whether the disclosures required by the statement in relation to the longerterm viability of the Group.
UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Based on the responsibilities described above and our work directors process supporting their statements: checking that undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and considering whether the statements are consistent with the matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company otherwise stated.
and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Strategic Report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors report.
CA06 Meggitt PLC 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC continued Other Code Provisions Use of this report We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and report when: only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with The statement given by the directors, on page 118, that they Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or balanced and understandable, and provides the information assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other necessary for the members to assess the Groups and person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it Companys position and performance, business model and may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the in writing.
Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
Other required reporting The section of the Annual Report on page 88 describing the Companies Act 2006 exception reporting work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
if, in our opinion: The directors statement relating to the Companys we have not received all the information and explanations we compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a require for our audit: or departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Directors Remuneration certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report are not made: or to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Company financial statements and the part of the the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Responsibilities for the financial statements We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial Appointment statements Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were As explained more fully in the Statement of directors appointed by the members on 2 October 2003 to audit the responsibilities set out on page 118, the directors are financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2003 and responsible for the preparation of the financial statements subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted in accordance with the applicable framework and for being engagement is 16 years, covering the years ended 31 December satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are 2003 to 31 December 2018. also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys John Ellis Senior Statutory Auditor ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, for and on behalf of  LLP matters related to going concern and using the going concern Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to Reading liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
25 February 2019 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Meggitt PLC 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements
