Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements of Melrose Industries PLC the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 30 to the consolidated financial statements and the related notes 1 to 8 to the Company Balance Sheet.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
114 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Summary of our audit approach Melrose Industries plc completed the acquisition of GKN plc on 19 April 2018.
As a result of the acquisition there Significant changes was a significant change in the structure of the Group.
in our approach Considering the effects of the acquisition on the 2018 income statement, we changed the basis for materiality from a % of adjusted profit to a blended measure reflecting a number of relevant metrics using our professional judgement.
We have revised our audit scoping in the context of the enlarged Group.
This includes the addition of 102 reporting units where either the Group audit team performed procedures or we requested component auditors to perform procedures under the Group audit teams supervision.
In addition, we have considered the significant risks to the enlarged Group.
We identified a number of additional risks relating to the underlying business operations as well as risks in relation to accounting for the acquisition of the GKN group.
New key audit matters in the current year reflect changes in our risk assessment and include: Acquisition accounting recognition and measurement of intangible assets, provisions and contingent liabilities acquired as part of GKN.
Revenue recognition this risk arises principally in the Engine Systems businesses, acquired as part of GKN Aerospace, and focuses on the valuation of revenue recognised given the increased level of estimation and judgement following the adoption of IFRS 15.
Valuation of inventory specifically in relation to sites where there are high levels of rework stock.
There were no key audit matters included in the prior year audit report that have not been included below.
Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Acquisition accounting intangible asset valuation Acquisition accounting onerous contract, warranty and contingent liability provisions Impairment of goodwill and acquired intangibles Classification of adjusting items Revenue recognition Valuation of inventory Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year are identified with.
The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 29 million.
We considered a number of Materiality benchmarks including operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and net assets, derived a materiality from each benchmark and then selected materiality from within the range which in our professional judgement is appropriate to the enlarged group financial statements.
We selected 40 reporting units representing 58% of the Groups revenue including the groups share of joint Scoping venture revenue where we requested component auditors to perform a full scope audit of the components financial information.
We also requested component auditors to perform specified audit procedures on certain account balances and transactions at a further 32 reporting units.
These units represented 17% of the Groups revenue.
The remaining reporting units were subject to desktop review procedures performed by the Group audit team.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 115 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC Continued Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it nothing material to report, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material add or draw attention to in uncertainties to the Groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from respect of these matters.
the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge nothing material to report, we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors add or draw attention to in assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state respect of these matters.
whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 52 to 58 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 51 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 49 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
116 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Intangible assets recognised on the balance sheet upon acquisition of GKN plc The Group completed the acquisition of We assessed managements processes and controls covering the We found that the GKN plc on 19 April 2018.
The Group applied measurement of intangible assets, in particular the key controls over the judgements formed IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 3 forecasts that underpin customer relationship and technology valuations.
by management were to identify and value the identifiable net assets within an acceptable We assessed the competence, capability and objectivity of of the acquisition business at this time, using range, the overall managements expert.
the assistance of an external valuations expert.
position adopted We engaged valuation specialists to evaluate the methodology and key was reasonable and The valuation of certain intangible assets of assumptions used by managements expert and to test the mathematical disclosures made in 5.7 billion arising on the acquisition of GKN accuracy of the valuation models.
the financial statements plc is considered to be a key audit matter.
The assets driven by particularly sensitive We have challenged the key assumptions used within the assumptions are: valuations including: technology and customer programmes assessment of discount, long-term growth and royalty rates against in the Aero and Auto segments: and external market sources: customer relationships in the Auto and Powder challenging revenue and earnings projections forecast by management Metallurgy segments.
through agreement to the approved mid-term plan, challenge of volumes against external industry consensus and customer order books, and The valuations are based on a number challenge of margin trends over the forecast period compared with of assumptions that require significant historical performance: judgement including: assessment of the methodology used to establish useful economic lives forecast revenue and EBIT projections of assets with the assistance of our valuations expert: for the relevant acquired businesses: agreeing data including customer attrition and contract length, which royalty rates and discount rates applied: and feed into the determination of useful economic lives, back to supporting estimates of useful economic lives.
documentation: searching for and assessing contradictory evidence through review of Refer to pages 82 to 89 Report of the programme minutes, analyst reports and industry publications: and Audit Committee and note 12: Acquisitions.
performing overall cross checks based on earnings multiples and the weighted average return on assets.
We have tested that the intangible assets recognised were consistent with our knowledge of the business.
Onerous contract, warranty and contingent liability provisions recognised on the balance sheet upon acquisition of GKN plc The Group has recognised onerous contract We assessed managements processes and controls over legal We found that the provisions of 629 million and provisions in and regulatory claims and issues and onerous contracts and assessed judgements formed respect of contractual, regulatory or legal the design and implementation of relevant controls.
by management were issues of 264 million at estimated fair value within an acceptable We challenged the assumptions underlying the valuation of onerous upon acquisition of GKN plc in line range, the overall contract and warranty provisions through: with IFRS3.
position adopted verifying volume, price and cost inputs used to calculate the provision: was reasonable and In respect of onerous contract provisions disclosures made in reviewing contracts upon which the provisions were based: there is judgement required in determining the financial statements reviewing internal audit reports and customer correspondence: a best estimate of the unavoidable costs were appropriate.
of fulfilling the companys obligations on visiting relevant sites and discussing the contracts with such contracts.
programme managers: benchmarking projected volumes against market volume data: In respect of other provisions recognised, there is judgement required in determining assessing contract-related overhead allocations for each business: the significance of any instances of: testing the data and assumptions used in calculating the utilisation of the provisions in the post-acquisition period: potential non-compliance with contractual terms: challenging the forecast margin by assessing against current performance and historical evidence on similar contracts: and regulatory or legal issues: or assessing contradictory evidence.
In respect of contractual legal regulatory provisions we made direct These have been provided based on enquiries of the Groups internal and external lawyers and commercial managements best estimate of the and operational management and reviewed relevant third party expenditure to settle the obligation.
Because of the quantitative significance, In respect of warranty provisions, we challenged managements complexity and level of judgement in both estimates of the most likely outcomes by critically evaluating the range provisions, we consider the valuation of of possible outcomes based on historical experience to determine if these provisions to be a key audit matter.
the amounts provided are appropriate.
Refer to pages 82 to 89 Report of the Audit We assessed the adequacy of the Groups financial statement Committee, note 3: Critical accounting disclosures and adherence to accounting standards.
judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and note 20: Provisions.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 117 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC Continued Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Impairment of goodwill and acquired intangibles Total goodwill on the balance sheet at We assessed the design and implementation of relevant controls We determined that 31 December 2018 is 4,052 million, around managements preparation of the impairment models.
the assumptions and total acquired intangible assets is applied in the We assessed managements impairment paper, underlying analysis, 7,019million.
As required by IAS 36 impairment model were supporting financial model and challenged the reasonableness of the Impairment of assets management performs within an acceptable assumptions which underpin managements forecasts.
Specifically, an impairment review for all goodwill balances range, that the overall our work included, but was not limited to: on an annual basis and for other assets position adopted was challenging managements key assumptions relating to the 2019 forecast whenever an indication of impairment is reasonable and the and later forecast periods with reference to the recent and historical identified.
This review identified three groups disclosures are performance of all three businesses, our knowledge of the businesses, of CGUs where headroom was limited: appropriate.
in particular the restructuring activity in the year and the status of end Energy goodwill nil following a recorded markets, as well as the current order book and external market data: impairment of 123 million, other intangible challenging of managements assumptions around the effects of US China assets 55 million trade tariffs on the Security and Smart Technology and Ergotron Security and Smart Technologies businesses by comparing to the impact on performance in 2018, and goodwill 357 million, other intangible performing independent research as to the probability of future tariffs assets 141million being implemented: Ergotron goodwill 435 million, other considering the extent to which the possible effects of Brexit should intangible assets 171 million be included in the impairment models: The impairment in the Energy CGU was specifically for Energy, challenging the timing of the recorded impairment recorded following deterioration in its end by performing independent research of the generator market: markets in the second half of the year.
benchmarking long-term growth rates to applicable macro-economic and market data: This has been identified as a key audit matter engaging our internal valuation specialists to challenge the discount as a result of the quantitative significance rate applied, by obtaining the underlying data used in the calculation of the balances, and the application of and benchmarking it against market data and comparable organisations, management judgement and estimation in and by evaluating the underlying process used to determine the risk performing impairment reviews for these adjusted cash flow projections: and groups of CGUs in particular.
Specifically, validating the integrity of the impairment models through testing support for the carrying value of assets relies of the mathematical accuracy, verifying the application of the input on assumptions and judgements made by assumptions and testing its compliance with IAS 36. management in respect of the forecasting of future cash flows and growth rates used We performed sensitivity analysis and have challenged management in the model.
on the key assumptions such as forecasted revenues, operating margins, discount rate and long-term growth rate which would either individually The key judgements and estimates and or collectively impact the impairment charge whilst also considering the impairment accounting policy are described likelihood of such movements.
in more detail in the audit committee report and in notes 3 and 11 to the consolidated We reviewed the disclosures in note 11 in relation to the sensitivities financial statements.
reflecting the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill and other non-current assets and also in note 3 in relation to the key sources of estimation uncertainty for these businesses.
118 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Classification of adjusting items While there is no definition of adjusting We assessed the design and implementation of managements controls We consider the items within IFRS, this is an area of focus around the classification of adjusting items in the financial statements.
disclosure of adjusting for regulators including ESMA and the FRC.
items to be in line with We evaluated the appropriateness of the inclusion of items, both The Group continues to classify certain costs or the Groups accounting individually and in aggregate, within adjusted results.
We assessed income in accordance with its accounting policies and that the the consistency of items included year on year and the application policy on adjusting items.
Given the acquisition presentation of of managements accounting policy, challenging the nature of these and restructure of the GKN businesses, there adjusting items is items against IFRS requirements, ESMA guidance and latest FRC are a significant level of adjusting items reported consistent between guidance.
In particular we challenged the inclusion of those items across the Group, including: the periods presented that recur annually.
restructuring costs of 240 million A sample of adjusting items, including all material items, were agreed to acquisition costs of 153 million source documentation and evaluated by the component and Group audit amortisation of 401 million teams as to their nature in order to assess whether they are disclosed in accordance with the Groups accounting policy, and also to assess impairment totalling 152 million consistency of adjusting items between periods in the financial statements.
reversal of the IFRS 3 inventory uplift for GKN 121 million We agreed the amounts recorded through to underlying financial records movement in derivatives 143 million and other audit support to test that the amounts disclosed were complete and accurate.
Explanations of each adjustment are set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
Where new items were included as a result of the GKN acquisition in Refer also to pages 82 to 89 Report of the particular the movement on un-hedged derivatives we challenged whether Audit Committee.
these were consistent with the Melrose definition of adjusting items.
In total, adjustments totalling 1.3 billion have We also assessed whether the disclosures within the financial statements been made to the statutory loss before tax of provide sufficient detail for the reader to understand the nature of these 550 million to derive adjusted profit before items and how adjusted results are reconciled to statutory results.
As such, a key audit matter has been identified in respect of the classification of items recorded as adjusting.
While the key measure used by management to monitor performance is adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax is also a key measure used by management in communication with shareholders.
There is a risk that items may be classified as adjusting which are underlying or recurring items and therefore distort the reported adjusted profit, whether due to manipulation or error.
Consistency in the identification and presentation of these items is important for the comparability of year on year reporting.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 119 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC Continued Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Revenue recognition The group has recognised total revenue of We assessed the design and implementation of controls around the We are satisfied that 8,605 million in 2018. recognition of revenue for RRSP contracts.
the key assumptions made in determining There are judgements taken within the revenue For each material RRSP contract with variable consideration, we the fair value of revenue recognition of material Risk and Revenue recalculated the amount of revenue recognised to check that it has been recognised on RRSP Sharing Partnerships RRSPs in the calculated in accordance with IFRS 15, the contractual agreement and contracts with variable Aerospace division where revenue totals the latest correspondence with the customer.
In particular, we have: consideration were 2,479 million.
The risk specifically arises in the agreed the percentage of revenue entitlement to the customer contract: within an acceptable Engine Systems businesses and focuses on range and the overall reviewed correspondence with the customer in the period, in particular the timing at which performance obligations position was entitlement reports: are met as well as the valuation of revenue reasonable.
challenged estimations made by management at the year end recognised given the increased level of by taking account of historical settlements and reviewing previous estimation and judgement following the estimation accuracy: adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
This includes the revenue challenged the assumptions used in arriving at the element of variable consideration recognised: and recognised from those contracts identified by management where the pricing for the same performed an assessment of the timing at which control is transferred parts varies across the contract.
There is and revenue is recognised by identifying the performance obligations judgement in how the overall price is allocated from the contract and verifying the recognition triggers.
across the units supplied where there is a contractual right to aftermarket revenues.
Refer to pages 82 to 89 Report of the Audit Committee, note 3: Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and note 4: Revenue.
Valuation of inventory The group has recorded inventory amounts As part of our risk assessment we identified inventory balances that We consider the net of provisions of 1,489 million.
appeared to be outliers using a range of metrics including stock turn valuation of inventory and inventory provisioning percentage.
at the sites referred We have identified a key audit matter in to above to be within respect of inventory valuation in those former We have evaluated the valuation of inventory by: an acceptable range, GKN businesses Aero and Auto divisions assessing the design and implementation of inventory provisioning controls the overall position where there is a history of inventory writeboth at the local plant level and at the divisional and group level: was reasonable and downs and rework stock, and judgement is the disclosures are evaluating the appropriateness of the inventory provisioning policy with required in determining provisions for obsolete appropriate.
reference to stock count results and recalculating its application to the items and the appropriate point at which to year-end inventory balance: recognise permanent write downs.
Net performing test counts with attendance from the audit management team, inventory for these sites totals 108 million.
with a focus on consideration of obsolescence and defective inventory, Refer to pages 82 to 89 Report of the including a sample of WIP items: Audit Committee, note 3: Critical accounting performing detailed sample tests of inventory identified at the stock count, judgements and key sources of estimation making direct enquires of engineers and programme managers where uncertainty and note 15: Inventory.
applicable to understand the nature of the stock and its realisable value: performing testing of net realisable value of finished goods and subsequent sales: and performing an analytical review of levels of scrap year on year, relative to programme, nature of inventory and any other site specifics.
120 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 29 million 2017: 12.5 million 14.5 million 2017: 6.25 million Basis for We considered a number of benchmarks including operating profit, We calculated materiality based on determining net assets and adjusted profit before tax, and the materiality figures net assets, which was then capped materiality derived from those, then selected a materiality within that range that at 50% of Group materiality.
we considered to be appropriate.
In 2017, materiality was determined on the basis of 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for In our professional judgement we believe that use of this blended In our professional judgement we the benchmark measure is appropriate because we consider that the current year believe that use of a balance sheet applied loss does not represent a long term decline in the size and scale of measure is appropriate for a holding the business and therefore solely using aprofit measure would not company.
Materiality has been appropriately reflect the characteristics of the underlying business capped at 50% of Group materiality.
operations in particular given that GKN was owned for only part of This is with reference to the net asset the year.
position of the parent company when compared to the net asset position The selected materiality represents 4% of adjusted profit before tax of the Group.
2017: 5% of underlying profit before tax and 0.3% of net assets 2017:0.7% We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Group performance materiality was set at 60% of group materiality 2017: 60%, In determining performance materiality we considered factors including: our risk assessment, including the proportion of significant audit risks versus normal audit risks in the audit: the historical control environment in the newly acquired GKN businesses: and our assessment of the complexity of the Group and the level of change during the year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1 million 2017: 500,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Melrose completed the acquisition of GKN plc on 19 April 2018.
As a result of the acquisition there was a significant change in the structure of the Group from last year which had a significant impact on the scope of our audit.
Following the acquisition of the GKN group, the group reorganised to recognise five separate operating segments which reflected the industries the group operates in.
The five segments are: Aerospace Automotive Powder Metallurgy Nortek Air & Security Other Industrial Each division consists of a number of reporting units, and manages operations on a geographical and functional basis.
There are 338 reporting units in total, each of which is responsible for maintaining their own accounting records and controls and using an integrated consolidation system to report to UK head office.
Our Group audit scope focused on audit work at 72 components 2017: 15, of which 16 relate to components that form part of the Aerospace segment: 26 relate to components that form part of the Automotive segment: 13 relate to components that form part of the Powder Metallurgy segment: 5 relate to components that form part of the Nortek Air & Security segment: and 12 relate to components that form part of the Other Industrial segment.
The change in the number of components reflects the acquisition of the GKN business by Melrose.
Each component was set a specific component materiality, considering its relative size and any component-specific risk factors such as internal audit findings and history of error.
The component materialities applied were in the range 5-10 million.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 121 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC Continued General scope Full scope audit work was completed on 40 components and the head office function, and audit procedures have also been performed over certain balances within 32 other components.
In total our scope represented 75% of Group revenue, 66% of Group operating profit and 84% of Group net assets.
Aerospace In respect of the Aerospace division, 9 components were subject to a full audit and 7 components were subject to the audit of specified account balances.
These 16 components together accounted for 81% of the Aerospace divisions revenue and 70% of the Aerospace divisions adjusted operating profit and divisional costs before central costs.
Automotive In respect of the Aerospace division, 13 components were subject to a full audit and 13 components were subject to the audit of specified account balances.
These 26 components accounted for 87% of the Automotive divisions revenue and 55% of the Automotive divisions adjusted operating profit and divisional costs before central costs.
Powder Metallurgy In respect of the Powder Metallurgy division, 4 components were subject to a full audit and 9 components were subject to the audit of specified account balances.
These 13 components together accounted for 80% of the Powder Metallurgy divisions revenue and 61% of the Powder Metallurgy divisions adjusted operating profit and divisional costs before central costs.
Nortek Air & Security In respect of the Nortek Air & Security division, 4 components were subject to a full audit and 1 component was subject to an audit of specified account balances.
These 5 components together accounted for 71% of the Nortek Air & Security divisions revenue and 71% of the Nortek Air & Security divisions adjusted operating profit and divisional costs before central costs.
Other Industrial In respect of the Other Industrial division, 10 components were subject to a full audit and 2 components were subject to the audit of specified account balances.
These 12 components together accounted for 51% of the Other Industrial divisions revenue and 54% of the Other Industrial divisions adjusted operating profit and divisional costs before central costs.
The increase in scale and complexity of the group had a direct impact on the global audit teams engaged to perform the Group audit and our supervision thereof.
The Group engagement team visited 23 of the Groups largest and most complex businesses during 2018 with a particular focus on newly acquired GKN businesses as well as some legacy businesses.
These visits, together with central analytics and enquiries of management, the knowledge of local auditors already in role and the output from managements advisors as they performed the fair value visits, informed our risk assessment.
In scoping the audit we were mindful of the North American balance sheet review and associated controls issues reported by GKN plc in their 2017 Annual report.
We focussed on the businesses that reported material write offs in 2017 including visits from the senior statutory auditor and other members of the Group engagement team, and instructing our component audit team to apply a risk adjusted, and therefore lower, level of materiality than other components of a similar size.
We also subjected other component auditors whose work was a response to a key audit matter, for instance Engine Systems, to additional supervision and direction including visits from the senior statutory auditor.
In addition to the programme of visits above, the senior statutory auditor held group-wide, divisional and individual planning and close meetings which covered all businesses.
Each segment has a dedicated member of the group audit team responsible for the supervision and direction of components, including where appropriate sector-specific expertise, and for GKN components we maintained some continuity from the previous audit teams where possible and appropriate.
Where we do not visit a component within our Group audit scope, we include the component audit team in our team briefing, discuss and review their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
We also reviewed the audit work papers supporting component teams reporting to us either in person during the visits above, or remotely using shared desktop technology.
In total, as set out in the chart below we performed audit work on site at locations which together contributed 75% of Group revenue and 66% of adjusted operating profit.
Revenue % OP % Full 60% Full 42% SAP 15% SAP 24% DTR 25% DTR 34% The Group engagement team also performed central procedures on: post-employment benefit obligations: derivative financial instruments: UK and corporate taxation: goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments: and self-insurance provisions and equity.
122 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements The Company was also subject to a full scope audit by the Group audit team, and we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 123 Independent auditors report to the members of Melrose Industries PLC Continued Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of group management and local management at each component and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations including the work of the internal audit function: discussing among the engagement team including significant component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists including tax, valuations, pensions, and industry specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: classification of adjusting items, acquisition accounting in particular intangible asset valuation and valuation of provisions and revenue recognition.
We determined that inventory valuation and impairment did not represent fraud risks: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act and Listing Rules as well as the pensions legislation, tax legislation.
In addition, we considered environmental legislation in the jurisdictions the Group operates in as having a fundamental effect on the operations of the group.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of the above, we identified the following as key audit matters: classification of adjusting items, acquisition accounting in particular intangible asset valuation and valuation of provisions and revenue recognition.
The key audit matters section of our report describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the audit committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims, including through a centrally managed global fraud questionnaire sent to key management personnel at the component, divisional and group level: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and reviewing internal audit reports: making direct enquiries of internal audit: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
124 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors in 2003 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2003 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 16 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2003 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Stephen Griggs FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 7 March 2019 Annual Report 2018 Melrose Industries PLC 125
