MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 93 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the Members of Merlin Entertainments plc 1 Our opinion is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of Merlin Entertainments plc the Company for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2018 which comprise the Materiality: 14.3 million 2017: 14.5 million consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive Group financial 5.0% 2017: 5.4% of income, consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated statement of statements as a whole Group profit before tax changes in equity, consolidated statement of cash flows, Company statement Coverage: 86% 2017: 82% of of financial position, Company statement of changes in equity and the related 1 by full scope audit procedures total profits andlosses notes, including the accounting policies in note 1.1.
Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 In our opinion: Risks The impact of uncertainties due to the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups the UK exiting the European Union and of the parent Companys affairs as at 29 December 2018 and of the on our audit Groups profit for the year then ended: Carrying value of the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Resort Theme Parks RTP goodwill with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: Visitor and accommodation the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in revenue recognition accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Recoverability of parent Companys Disclosure Framework: and investment in and amounts owed by the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Group undertakings requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
1 Total profits and losses coverage is calculated by considering absolute profits and losses before tax, after eliminating inter-group interest income and expense, foreign exchange movements on Basis for opinion inter-group loans, and inter-group dividends.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are 2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a misstatement sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were with our report to the Audit Committee.
of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to We were first appointed as auditor by the Directors on 30 September 2013. fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the six financial years overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the ended 29 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are were provided.
based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
94 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT C O N T I NUE D To the Members of Merlin Entertainments plc The risk Our response The impact of uncertainties due to the Unprecedented levels of uncertainty: We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the UK exiting the European Union on our All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness consideration of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in audit of estimates, in particular as described in Carrying planning and performing our audits.
value of Resort Theme Parks goodwill and Refer to page 36 Principal Risks, pages 70 Recoverability of the parent Companys Our procedures included: to 73 Audit Committee Report.
investment in and amounts owed by Group undertakings below, and related disclosures and Our Brexit knowledge: we considered the Directors the appropriateness of the going concern basis of assessment of Brexit-related sources of risk for the Groups preparation of the financial statements see business and financial resources compared with our own below.
All of these depend on assessments of the understanding of the risks.
We considered the Directors plans future economic environment and the Groups to take action to mitigate the risks: future prospects and performance.
Sensitivity analysis: when addressing Carrying value of In addition, we are required to consider the other Resort Theme Parks goodwill and Recoverability of the parent information presented in the Annual Report Companys investment in and amounts owed by Group including the principal risks disclosure and the undertakings and other areas that depend on forecasts, we Viability Statement and to consider the Directors compared the Directors analysis to our assessment of the full statement that the Annual Report and Accounts range of reasonably possible scenarios resulting from Brexit taken as a whole is fair, balanced and uncertainty and, where forecast cash flows are required to be understandable and provides the information discounted, considered adjustments to discount rates for the necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups level of remaining uncertainty: and position and performance, business model and strategy.
Assessing transparency: as well as assessing individual disclosures as part of our procedures on Carrying value of Brexit is one of the most significant economic Resort Theme Parks goodwill and Recoverability of the parent events for the UK and at the date of this report its Companys investment in and amounts owed by Group effects are subject to unprecedented levels of undertakings we considered all of the Brexit-related disclosures uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range of and disclosures in relation to going concern together, including possible effects unknown.
those in the Strategic Report, comparing the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
Our results As reported under Carrying value of Resort Theme Parks goodwill and Recoverability of the parent Companys investment in and amounts owed by Group undertakings, we found the resulting estimates and related disclosures of Brexit and disclosures in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 95 The risk Our response Carrying value of Resort Theme Forecast based valuation: Our procedures included: Parks RTP goodwill A history of business combinations results in significant goodwill balances.
The RTP Operating Historical comparisons: 212 million 2017: 209 million Group is capital intensive and unlike the other assessing five years historical accuracy of the Groups Operating Groups has not generated headroom forecasting and building comparable variations in forecasting Refer to pages 70 to 73 Audit Committee via growth from new site openings.
As RTP has accuracy into our own models that were used to re-perform Report, page 121 accounting policy and been impaired in the past and has a small amount the valuation: pages 122 to 123 financial disclosures.
of headroom, there is a risk that its goodwill will not be supportable by its continuing operations.
evaluating expected changes in site-level cash flows from Risk vs 2017: activities such as new promotions and customer experience The estimated recoverable amount is subjective improvements and the planned cost base, in light of the past due to the inherent uncertainty involved in results of similar activities carried out by the Group: forecasting future cash flows and determining the most appropriate rate at which to discount them.
Benchmarking assumptions: benchmarking Group earnings multiple and discount rates including the underlying The effect of these matters is that, as part of our assumptions used against market data, including publicly risk assessment, we determined that the value in available analysts reports and peer comparison: use of Resort Theme Parks has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of Sensitivity analysis: assessing the reasonableness of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality managements sensitivity analysis, including calculating the for the financial statements as a whole, and impact of changes in key assumptions, performing breakeven possibly many times that amount.
The financial analysis of the earnings multiple, discount rates, forecast cash statements note 3.3 disclose the sensitivity flows, and modelling the cash flows of a base case scenario: estimated by the Group.
Comparing valuations: comparing the sum of the discounted cash flows across the Group to the Groups market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of the future cash flows, discount rate and long term growth rate: and Assessing transparency: assessing whether the Groups sensitivity disclosures regarding the impairment testing adequately reflects the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of RTP goodwill to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
96 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT C O N T I NUE D To the Members of Merlin Entertainments plc The risk Our response Visitor and accommodation Risk of processing error: Our procedures included: revenue recognition Merlins revenue comes from a number of different channels, locations and systems, Control design: at certain sites, where we anticipated being 1,617 million 2017: 1,529 million sometimes featuring manual processes to match able to rely on such systems, testing of the general IT control past purchases and deferred revenue to environment of the systems used to record revenue and Refer to pages 70 to 73 Audit Committee redemptions, or to transfer data to the evaluating controls over the revenue process including their Report, page 110 accounting policy.
operating effectiveness: Risk vs 2017: The low value of individual transactions means Control operation: testing the design, implementation and individual errors would be insignificant, however operating effectiveness of manual controls supporting the high volume of transactions mean systematic revenue recognition, including reconciliations of till records failure could lead to difficulty in detecting errors to cash banked and to revenue journal entries in the that, in aggregate, may have a material balance.
accounting records: Expectation vs outcome: forming an expectation for revenue by analysing total cash received per bank statements as adjusted for non-revenue transactions, sales taxes collected and balance sheet movements and comparing this expectation to revenue recognised: and Tests of detail: agreeing a sample of revenue transactions to bank statements or other supporting documentation.
Testing of deferred revenue balances through agreeing back to ticketing system records and re-computing specific manual calculations.
The extent of this testing reflected the outcome of our controls testing at each location.
Our results We found the revenue amounts recognised to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Recoverability of the parent Low risk, high value: Our procedures included: Companys investment in and amounts The carrying amount of the parent Companys owed by Group undertakings investment in and amounts owed by Group Tests of detail: for the investment and amounts owed by undertakings represents 99.9% 2017: 99.8% of Group undertakings where the carrying amount exceeded the Investments in subsidiary 3,137 million the parent Companys total assets.
Their net asset value, comparing the carrying amount of the 2017: 3,129 million, amounts owed by recoverability does not lead to a high risk of investment and amounts owed by Group undertakings with Group undertakings 4 million current, significant misstatement, nor is it subject to the expected value of the business based on the Groups 1,260 million non-current 2017: 3 million significant judgement.
However, due to their market capitalisation as adjusted by monetary assets and current, 1,449 million non-current materiality in the context of the parent Company liabilities held by the parent Company.
financial statements, this is considered to be the Refer to pages 70 to 73 Audit Committee area that has had the greatest effect on our overall Our results Report and pages 150 to 154 accounting parent Company audit.
We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of policy and financial disclosures.
the investment in and amounts owed by Group undertakings to be acceptable 2017:acceptable.
Risk vs 2017: MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 97 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of Pro t before tax Group materiality our audit 285 million 2017: 271 million 14.3 million 2017: 14.5 million Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 14,300,000 2017: 14,500,000, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents 5.0% 2017: 5.4%.
14.3 million Whole financial statements materiality Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 2017: 14.5 million 4,500,000 2017: 4,500,000, determined with reference to component materiality.
This is lower than the materiality we would otherwise have determined by reference to total assets, and represents 0.1% of the parent Companys total assets 2017: 0.1%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected 4.5 million Range of materiality identified misstatements affecting profit exceeding 715,000 2017: 725,000 at components or otherwise exceeding 2,000,000 2017: 2,000,000, in addition to other 0.5 million to 4.5 million identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
2017: 0.5 million to 4.5 million This also includes procedures on finance costs and assets established on Pro t before tax 0.7 million consolidation: the total of these balances were audited at Group level.
Full Group materiality Misstatements reported to the scope audits for Group reporting purposes were performed at 33 components Audit Committee 2017: 0.7 million in the following countries: Australia, China including Hong Kong, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Japan, Thailand, UK and USA.
The components for which we performed specified risk-focused audit procedures or analysis at an aggregated Revenue Total pro ts and losses Group level were not individually significant but were included in the scope of our Group reporting work to provide further coverage.
We select these 17% 9% components on a rotational basis, setting a financial threshold on each of the 14% 5% 11% Group profit before tax, Group revenue and Group property, plant and 7% equipment and using our assessment of risk to select a sample of sites from 11% 9% those that meet at least one of these thresholds.
83% 91% 2017: 86% 2017: 89% The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
The remaining 9% of total Group profit before tax, 17% of Group revenue and 75% 82% 16% of Group property, plant and equipment is represented by a large number 74% 86% of smaller reporting components, none of which individually represented more Property, plant and equipment than 0.8% of any of the total profits or losses that made up Group profit before tax, total Group revenue or total Group property, plant and 16% equipment.
For these residual components, we performed analysis at an 16% aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
9% 9% 84% The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to 2017: 84% be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved each component materiality, which ranged from 500,000 to 4,500,000, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The Group audit team 75% carried out audits for Group reporting purposes of the financial information of 75% components covering 19% 2017: 33% of the total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax, including the audit of the parent Company.
The Key: Group audit team also undertook all audit procedures of certain total Group Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 account balances as mentioned above, covering a further 4% 2017:4% of total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax.
Speci ed risk-focused procedures 2018 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 Speci ed risk-focused procedures 2017 Analysis at an aggregated Group level 98 MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC ANN UAL RE PORT AND ACCOU NTS 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT C O N T I NUE D To the Members of Merlin Entertainments plc The Group team visited one 2017: two overseas component location in 5 We have nothing to report on the other information in the California 2017: Germany and Japan to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Annual Report and Accounts Additionally we performed inspection of the work covering the key audit The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the matters at all component audit teams performing audits for Group reporting Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the purposes.
Teleconference meetings were held with all component auditors.
At financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we these meetings, the Group audit team provided further input to audit risk and do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form strategy, and the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more of assurance conclusion thereon.
detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein 4 We have nothing to report on going concern is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Group or to cease misstatements in the other information.
their operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded Strategic Report and Directors Report that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt Based solely on our work on the other information: over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report and date of approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
the Directors Report: in our opinion, the information given in those reports for the financial year is Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors consistent with the financial statements: and conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot Companies Act 2006. predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the Directors Remuneration Report time they were made, the absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited auditors report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. continue in operation.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer term viability In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the inherent Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we risks to the Groups and Companys business model and analysed how those have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: risks might affect the Groups and Companys financial resources or ability to the Directors confirmation within page 41 that they have carried out a continue operations over the going concern period.
The risks that we robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those considered most likely to adversely affect the Groups and Companys available that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency financial resources over this period were: and liquidity: ride safety incidents: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they acts of terrorism and or the impact of the threat of terrorism on are being managed and mitigated: and consumer behaviours.
the Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt on the Groups and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we considered as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be sensitivities over the level of available financial resources indicated by the able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Groups financial forecasts taking account of reasonably possible but not period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these risks individually and attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
collectively and evaluated the achievability of the actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position should the risks materialise.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
We We also considered less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as have nothing to report in this respect.
the impact of Brexit and the erosion of customer or supplier confidence or a broad economic downturn, which could result in a rapid reduction of available Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the financial resources.
knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in Based on this work, we are required to report to you if we have concluded outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the that the use of the going concern basis of accounting is inappropriate or there is time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is an undisclosed material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt over the not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer term viability.
use of that basis for a period of at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
MERLIN E NTERTAINME NTS PLC 99 Corporate governance disclosures Irregularities ability to detect We are required to report to you if: We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement experience and through discussion with the Directors and other management that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as as required by auditing standards and discussed with the Directors and other a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our business model and strategy: or team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement varies considerably.
Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 provisions of the UK directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws We have nothing to report in these respects.
and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations 6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on are required to report by exception amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our imposition of fines or litigation.
We identified the following area as that most opinion: likely to have such an effect: health and safety, recognising the nature of the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, Groups activities.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the visited by us: or Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors correspondence, if any.
These limited procedures did not identify actual or Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the suspected non-compliance.
accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that made: or we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial we have not received all the information and explanations we require for statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit our audit.
in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events We have nothing to report in these respects.
and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
7 Respective responsibilities In addition, as with any audit, there remains a higher risk of non-detection of Directors responsibilities irregularities arising from fraud, as these may involve collusion, forgery, As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 92, the Directors intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing 8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe the Groups and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, ourresponsibilities disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members but to do so.
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Auditors responsibilities assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to have formed.
fraud, other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does Hugh Green not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will Senior Statutory Auditor always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, Chartered Accountants individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the Gateway House, Tollgate, economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Chandlers Ford, Southampton SO53 3TG A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at 27 February 2019 www.
