STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE DIRECTORS OF METROBANK PLC ON COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY INFORMATION Report on the audit of the country-by-country information opinion In our opinion, MetroBank PLCs country-by-country information for the year ended 31 December 2018 has been properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the requirements of the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013.
We have audited the country-by-country information for the year ended 31 December 2018 in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK, including ISA UK 800 and ISA UK 805, and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the country-by-country information section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the country-by-country information in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
emphasis of matter - Basis of preparation In forming our opinion on the country-by-country information, which is not modified, we draw attention to the relevant note of the country-by-country information which describes the basis of preparation.
The country-by-country information isprepared for the directors for the purpose of complying with the requirements of the Capital Requirements Country-byCountry Reporting Regulations 2013.
The country-by-country information has therefore been prepared in accordance with a special purpose framework and, as a result, the country-by-country information may not be suitable for another purpose.
conclusions relating to going concern We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which ISAs UK require us to report to you when: the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the country-by-country information is not appropriate: or the directors have not disclosed in the country-by-country information any identified material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt about the companys ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting for a period of at least twelve months from the date when the country-by-country information is authorised for issue.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report and Accounts other than the country-bycountry information and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the country-by-country information does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the country-by-country information, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the country-by-country information or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the country-by-country information or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 161 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE DIRECTORS OF METROBANK PLC ON COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY INFORMATION CONTINUED responsibilities for the country-by-country information and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the country-by-country information The directors are responsible for the preparation of the country-by-country information in accordance with the requirements of the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013 as explained in the basis of preparation and accounting policies in note 1, and for determining that the basis of preparation and accounting policies are acceptable in the circumstances.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of country-by-country information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the country-by-country information, the directors are responsible for assessing the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the country-by-country information It is our responsibility to report on whether the country-by-country information has been properly prepared in accordance with the relevant requirements of the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the country-by-country information as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of this country-by-country information.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the country-by-country information is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report Use of this report This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys directors in accordance with the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come, save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The engagement partner responsible for this audit is Darren Meek  LLP chartered accountants and Statutory auditors London 10 April 2019 162 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018
