INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF METROBANK PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements opinion In our opinion, MetroBank PLCs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit and the groups and the parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the group and parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2018: the group statement of comprehensive income, the group and parent company cash flow statements, and the group and parent company statements of changes inequity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis forour opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, andwe have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
Other than those disclosed in note 7 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the parent company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
98 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: 1.8m 2017: 1.9m, based on 5% of the average consolidated profit or loss before tax of the last 5 years.
Overall parent company materiality: 1.9m 2017: 2.0m, based on 5% of the average profit or loss Materiality before tax of the last 5 years.
The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were determined by our risk assessment, the financial significance of reporting units and other qualitative factors including history of misstatement through fraud or error.
Audit scope The Group is comprised of three operating entities: MetroBank PLC, SME Invoice Finance Limited and SME Asset Finance Limited, which are referred to in our report as business components.
The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were Key audit determined by our risk assessment, the financial significance of business components and other matters qualitative factors including history of misstatement through fraud or error.
We performed audit procedures over business components considered financially significant in the context of the Group full scope audit or in the context of individual primary statement account balances audit of specific account balances.
We performed other procedures including testing entity level controls, information technology general controls and analytical review procedures to mitigate the risk of material misstatement in the non-financially significant business components.
The areas of focus for our audit which involved the greatest allocation of our resources and effortwere: Impairment of loans and advances to customers Group and parent Recognition of revenue on loans and advances Group and parent These items were discussed with the Audit Committee as part of our audit plan communicated in September 2018 and updated in November 2018.
These were the key audit matters for discussion atthe conclusion of our audit.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the group and the industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with lawsand regulations related to breaches of banking regulations such as, but not limited to, the Consumer Credit Act and unethical and prohibited business practices, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to increase revenue or reduce expenditure, and management bias in accounting estimates.
Audit procedures performed by the engagement team included: Discussions with the Audit Committee, management, internal audit and the groups legal counsel, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud: Evaluation of the operating effectiveness of managements controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities: Reading correspondence with regulators, such as the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority in relation to the groups compliance with banking regulations: Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their estimation of the impairment of loans and advances to customers and revenue recognition see related key audit matters below, and the recognition of the deferred tax asset relating to brought forward trading losses: and Identifying and testing journal entries posted by management or with unusual account combinations.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 99 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF METROBANK PLC CONTINUED There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Thisis not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment of loans and advances We assessed and tested the design and operating effectiveness of the to customers controls directly associated with the impairment calculation.
IFRS 9 was adopted on 1 January 2018 and introduced significant changes to the estimation The procedures we performed in reaching our conclusions included: ofimpairment as losses are now recognised on an With support from our credit modelling specialists, we understood expected, forward looking basis, reflecting the and critically assessed the methodology applied in the impairment groups view of potential future economic events.
models, to evaluate whether the methodology was compliant with As a result, a new methodology encompassing IFRS 9 requirements, and tested key assumptions and judgements, newassumptions and judgements was required including those made by management in determining PDs and todetermine impairment provisions under IFRS 9, LGDs, used in the calculation of provisions.
and there are new disclosure requirements.
To test the application of managements staging thresholds, we performed substantive procedures including selecting samples of The assumptions and judgements of most loans and advances, forming our own judgements of stage significance included the following: allocation and comparing this to managements conclusions.
The judgements made by management in To test managements incorporation of forward looking information determining the probability of default PD into the impairment modelling process, we compared the forward andloss given default LGD : looking assumptions to publically available forecasts, including The staging thresholds selected by those published by the Bank of England.
We assessed management to determine a significant increase managements probability weights applied to the scenarios in the in credit risk, and hence whether a 12 month or calculation of impairment and considered whether the scenarios lifetime loss provision is recorded: and and probability weights appeared to be within a reasonable range.
The application of forward looking economic This included assessing managements assumptions regarding the assumptions used in the models, including UKs exit from the European Union.
managements assumptions to address We tested the accuracy of critical data inputs used by the potentialrisks from the UKs exit from the impairment models on a sample basis to supporting European Union.
We tested managements model monitoring controls and controls Group and parent covering the identification of which loans and advances which are impaired, including re-performing a number of model monitoring tests independently.
We evaluated whether the credit risk disclosures made by management were compliant with the requirements of IFRS 9 and traced the disclosures to source data.
We determined that these controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively and therefore we determined that we could place reliance on them for the purposes of our audit.
Based on our procedures we found the assumptions and judgements used by management in their impairment estimate to be reasonable, and the new financial statements disclosures to be materially in line with the requirements of IFRS 9.
100 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We evaluated the circumstances surrounding the RWA adjustment announced in January 2019, and considered the impact on our audit work.
Whilst RWAs and the related adjustment do not form part of the financial statements, we made enquiries of management and the Board, and the Prudential Regulation Authority, reviewed correspondence with the Banks regulators, as well as reading reports issued by advisers engaged to support the Bank in its review of this area.
We performed additional testing in respect of the recording of loan and collateral information used for financial statement reporting purposes, to the extent that this information was relevant to managements assessment of impairment of loans and advances.
We also considered whether there is any evidence from the procedures performed as to the integrity of financial statement reporting in respect of loans and advances, or therelated control environment.
No material issues were noted.
Recognition of revenue on loans and advances We assessed and tested the design and operating effectiveness of the The Group recognises interest income using the controls directly associated with the calculation and reporting of effective interest rate method which spreads interest income on loans to customers.
These controls included: interest and directly attributable cash flows, the accurate input of loan data into core financial reporting systems: most significant of which relate to loan arrangement appropriate authorisation of amendments to data: and fees and upfront costs of new lending, over the determination and approval of the assumptions used in the effective loans expected lives.
The expected life assumptions utilise repayment We determined that these controls were designed, implemented and profiles to represent how customers are expected operated effectively and therefore we determined that we could place to repay.
The Group has limited historical reliance on them for the purposes of our audit.
experience to support these profiles and therefore management must apply judgement, in addition to We assessed managements effective interest rate calculations through any historical information available.
stressing the assumptions applied and utilising internal benchmarks to evaluate the appropriateness of the key assumptions used.
We found Group and parent no exceptions.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The group is comprised of three operating entities: MetroBank PLC, SME Invoice Finance Limited and SME Asset Finance Limited.
The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were determined by our risk assessment and other qualitative factors including history of misstatement through fraud or error.
We performed audit procedures over business components considered financially significant in the context of the group full scope audit or in the context of individual primary statement account balances audit of specific account balances, using the materiality levels set out above.
We also performed other audit procedures including testing information technology general controls and controls over key outsourced functions related to financial reporting, to mitigate the risk of material misstatement.
This approach gave us coverage of over 99% of the groups total assets.
Audit coverage on account balances in the consolidated income statement ranges between 85% and 100%.
For the remaining balances within business components which were not individually financially significant, the risk of material misstatement was mitigated through audit procedures including testing of entity level controls Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 101 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF METROBANK PLC CONTINUED Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect ofmisstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements parent company financial statements Overall materiality 1.8m 2017: 1.9m.
How we determined it 5% of the average consolidated profit or loss 5% of the average profit or loss before tax ofthe before tax of the last 5 years.
Rationale for benchmark Based on the benchmarks used in the Annual Based on the benchmarks used in the Annual applied Report, profit or loss before tax is a key Report, profit or loss before tax is a key measure used by the shareholders in measure used by the shareholders in assessing assessing the performance of the Group, and the performance of the company, and is a is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
For our group audit, we identified one financially significant component, which is the parent company.
We allocated a materiality of 1.7m to the parent company, which is less than our overall group materiality.
As the allocated materiality for the parent company is below the statutory materiality, we have audited the parent company using this lower component materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 91,000 group audit 2017: 92,000 and 93,000 parent company audit 2017: 99,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: reporting obligation outcome We are required to report if we have anything material We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
toadd or draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the However, because not all future events or conditions can directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going bepredicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial companys ability to continue as a going concern.
For statements and the directors identification of any material example, the terms on which the United Kingdom may uncertainties to the groups and the parent companys withdraw from the European Union are not clear, and it is ability to continue as a going concern over a period of difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications on the atleast twelve months from the date of approval of the group and parent companys trade, customers, suppliers financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
102 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained inthe audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared inaccordance with applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
the directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 59 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency orliquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 43 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
other code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 60, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 71 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 103 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF METROBANK PLC CONTINUED responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 60, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enablethe preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting companies act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not inagreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the directors on 29 July 2009 to audit the financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2010 and subsequent financial periods.
During 2018 the directors carried out an audit tender and we were subsequently invited to continue to perform the audit of the financial statements, pending formal reappointment at the 2019 Annual General Meeting.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 9years, covering the years ended 31 December 2010 to 31 December 2018.
Darren Meek Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  llP chartered accountants and Statutory auditors London 10 April 2019 104 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018
