94 Independent auditors report to the members of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc We were first appointed as auditor by the company before 1.
Our opinion is unmodified 1994 prior to the company becoming a public interest entity.
We have audited the financial statements of Millennium For the period ended 31 December 2018, the total & Copthorne Hotels plc the Company for the year uninterrupted engagement period is for 22 financial years ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the whilst the company was a public-interest entity.
We have Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, the fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in to listed public interest entities.
No nonaudit services Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the prohibited by that standard were provided.
Company Statement of Financial Position, the Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 2.2 of the Group Overview financial statements and note B of the Company financial Materiality: 6.0m 2017:7.0m statements.
Group financial 4.2% 2017: 4.0% of statements as a whole normalised profit before tax In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of Coverage 97% 2017: 95% of group the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys profit before tax affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups Key audit matters vs 2017 profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly New risk The impact of prepared in accordance with International Financial uncertainties due to the Reporting Standards as adopted by the European UK exiting the European Union: Union on our audit the Parent Company financial statements have been Valuation of hotel assets Recurring risks properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Classification and Framework: and valuation of investment the financial statements have been prepared in properties accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial Recoverability of parent statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
companys investment Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit & Risk Committee.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Independent The risk Our response The impact of uncertainties Unprecedented levels of uncertainty We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the due to the UK existing the consideration of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in All audits assess and challenge the European Union on our audit planning and performing our audits.
Our procedures reasonableness of estimates, in particular as included: described in valuation of hotel assets and auditors report Refer to page 69 Audit & related disclosures and the appropriateness of Our Brexit knowledge: we considered the Directors Risk Committee Report.
the going concern basis of preparation of the assessment of Brexit-related sources of risk for the financial statements see going concern Groups business and financial resources compared with section below.
All of these depend on our own understanding of the risks.
We considered the assessments of the future economic Directors plans to take action to mitigate the risks.
environment and the Groups future prospects to the members of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc and performance.
Sensitivity analysis: when addressing valuation of hotel assets and other areas that depend on forecasts, we In addition, we are required to consider the We were first appointed as auditor by the company before 1.
Our opinion is unmodified compared the Directors analysis to our assessment of other information presented in the Annual 1994 prior to the company becoming a public interest entity.
the full range of reasonably possible scenarios resulting We have audited the financial statements of Millennium Report including the principal risks disclosure For the period ended 31 December 2018, the total from Brexit uncertainty and, where forecast cash flows & Copthorne Hotels plc the Company for the year and the viability statement and to consider the uninterrupted engagement period is for 22 financial years are required to be discounted, considered adjustments to ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Directors statement that the annual report whilst the company was a public-interest entity.
We have discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss, the and financial statements taken as a whole is fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive fair, balanced and understandable and independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical Assessing transparency: as well as assessing individual Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial provides the information necessary for requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied disclosures as part of our procedures on valuation of hotel Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in shareholders to assess the Groups position to listed public interest entities.
No nonaudit services assets, we considered all of the Brexit related disclosures Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the and performance, business model and prohibited by that standard were provided.
together, including those in the strategic report, comparing Company Statement of Financial Position, the Company strategy.
the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 2.2 of the Group Overview Brexit is one of the most significant economic Our results financial statements and note B of the Company financial events for the UK and at the date of this report As reported under valuation of hotel assets, we found the Materiality: 6.0m 2017:7.0m statements.
its effects are subject to unprecedented levels resulting estimates and related disclosures to be Group financial of uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range 4.2% 2017: 4.0% of acceptable.
We also found the assessments and statements as a whole of possible effects unknown.
normalised profit before tax disclosures in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
In our opinion: No audit should, however, be expected to predict the the financial statements give a true and fair view of Coverage 97% 2017: 95% of group unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys profit before tax company and this is particularly the case in relation to affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups Brexit.
Key audit matters vs 2017 profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly New risk The impact of prepared in accordance with International Financial uncertainties due to the Reporting Standards as adopted by the European UK exiting the European Union: Union on our audit the Parent Company financial statements have been Valuation of hotel assets Recurring risks properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Classification and Framework: and valuation of investment the financial statements have been prepared in properties accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial Recoverability of parent statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 96 The risk Our response Valuation of Hotel Assets Subjective valuation Assessing valuers credentials: we assessed the independence, professional qualifications, competence 3,153m: 2017: 3,129m The Groups hotel assets are subject to an and experience of the external valuers used by the Group.
annual review to assess whether or not they may be impaired.
Test of details: we challenged the Groups assessment of Refer to page 68 Audit & the properties at risk by reference to relevant impairment Risk Committee Report, The Group first identifies the hotel assets indicators using our understanding of the assets page 114 accounting policy where there is an indication of impairment.
and page 133 financial performance in relation to previous forecasts and the These assets are then subjected to detailed market performance and assessing the quantum of disclosures.
impairment review referenced to either available headroom from previous valuations.
current external valuations or internal trading updates derived from the most recently Methodology choice: using our valuation specialists, we available external valuation.
challenged the appropriateness of the valuers reports by assessing whether their valuations were in accordance Certain hotel assets were considered at risk with the RICS Valuation professional Standards the red of impairment due to being subject to book and relevant accounting standards.
impairment in previous years and therefore any decline in performance may result in a Benchmarking assumptions: we challenged the key further impairment being recorded or assumptions used in external valuations performed during because the Group has experienced a difficult the year, in particular forecast free cash flows and future trading environment in 2018, particularly in market growth, terminal and discount rates, by comparing the US and certain parts of Asia.
them to externally derived data, internal budgets and source data, where applicable.
Our valuation specialists External valuations are generally performed assisted in the evaluation of the most subjective and on a third party operator basis.
This assesses complex assumptions and analyses.
the value of the hotel on the same basis that an efficient operator market participant Our sector experience: for those properties at risk of would and therefore assesses the net cash impairment but that were not externally valued during the flows that an efficient operator believes it year, we assessed the trading results of the properties and could achieve.
whether this provided evidence of any significant changes in the key assumptions applied in the most recent external This analysis is subjective due to the inherent valuation.
This included comparing the current uncertainty involved in determining performance of the assets to the forecasts made in the appropriate assumptions such as expected last external valuation and assessing unusual trends in free cash flows and future market growth, updated cash flows against source data, where applicable.
terminal rate and discount rates.
therefore, Our valuation specialists assisted in the evaluation of the the review and challenge of these most subjective and complex assumptions and analyses.
assumptions is one of the key judgmental areas that our audit is concentrated on.
Sensitivity analysis: we performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions noted above for the most subjective and complex valuations to assess the range of possible alternative outcomes and used these to challenge the appropriateness of the valuation conclusions.
Assessing transparency: we considered the appropriateness of the Groups disclosures about the impairment test and the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of the hotel assets to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 97 The risk Our response The risk Our response Classification and Subjective valuation Assessing valuers credentials: we assessed the valuation of investment independence, professional qualifications, competence and Valuation of Hotel Assets Subjective valuation Assessing valuers credentials: we assessed the Investment property is one of the Groups properties experience of the external valuers used by the Group.
independence, professional qualifications, competence largest asset categories and the models 3,153m: 2017: 3,129m The Groups hotel assets are subject to an 650m: 2017: 568m applied to determine the fair value of and experience of the external valuers used by the Group.
Methodology choice: using our valuation specialists, we annual review to assess whether or not they investment properties are complex and challenged the appropriateness of the valuers reports by may be impaired.
sensitive to assumptions around rental rates Test of details: we challenged the Groups assessment of Refer to page 68 Audit & assessing whether their valuations were in accordance Refer to page 68 Audit & and future market growth, terminal rate and the properties at risk by reference to relevant impairment Risk Committee Report, Risk Committee Report, with the RICS Valuation professional Standards the red The Group first identifies the hotel assets discount rates.
indicators using our understanding of the assets page 114 accounting policy book and relevant accounting standards.
page 116 accounting policy where there is an indication of impairment.
and page 133 financial performance in relation to previous forecasts and the and page 136 financial During the year, the Group made a material These assets are then subjected to detailed market performance and assessing the quantum of disclosures.
Benchmarking assumptions: we challenged the key acquisition of a property.
Classification of an impairment review referenced to either available headroom from previous valuations.
assumptions used in the valuations, in particular rental asset as investment property requires current external valuations or internal trading rates and future market growth, terminal rate and discount judgement, and is determined by reference updates derived from the most recently rates by comparing them to externally derived data, internal Methodology choice: using our valuation specialists, we to the Groups future intentions and available external valuation.
budgets and source data, where applicable.
challenged the appropriateness of the valuers reports by specialists assisted in the evaluation of the more subjective assessing whether their valuations were in accordance Certain hotel assets were considered at risk and complex assumptions and analyses.
with the RICS Valuation professional Standards the red of impairment due to being subject to book and relevant accounting standards.
impairment in previous years and therefore Our sector experience: we assessed the appropriateness any decline in performance may result in a of the classification of new investment properties by Benchmarking assumptions: we challenged the key further impairment being recorded or understanding the business models and managements assumptions used in external valuations performed during because the Group has experienced a difficult intentions, corroborated with inspection of contracts and the year, in particular forecast free cash flows and future agreements.
trading environment in 2018, particularly in market growth, terminal and discount rates, by comparing the US and certain parts of Asia.
them to externally derived data, internal budgets and Assessing transparency: we assessed whether the source data, where applicable.
Our valuation specialists Groups disclosures properly reflected the risks inherent in External valuations are generally performed assisted in the evaluation of the most subjective and the calculations and met the requirements of relevant on a third party operator basis.
the value of the hotel on the same basis that an efficient operator market participant Our sector experience: for those properties at risk of Our results would and therefore assesses the net cash impairment but that were not externally valued during the We found the valuation of investment properties to be flows that an efficient operator believes it year, we assessed the trading results of the properties and acceptable 2017: acceptable.
This included comparing the current uncertainty involved in determining performance of the assets to the forecasts made in the appropriate assumptions such as expected last external valuation and assessing unusual trends in Recoverability of parent Low risk, high value Tests of detail: we compared the carrying amount of free cash flows and future market growth, updated cash flows against source data, where applicable.
companys investments 100% of investments to the relevant subsidiaries terminal rate and discount rates.
therefore, The carrying amount of the parent companys Our valuation specialists assisted in the evaluation of the consolidated trial balances to identify whether their net the review and challenge of these 1,988m: 2017: 1,970m investments in subsidiaries represents 96% most subjective and complex assumptions and analyses.
assets, being an approximation of their minimum assumptions is one of the key judgmental 2017: 97% of the companys total assets.
recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying areas that our audit is concentrated on.
Sensitivity analysis: we performed sensitivity analysis on Refer to page 183 accounting Their recoverability is not at a high risk of policy and page 181 financial the key assumptions noted above for the most subjective significant misstatement or subject to Assessing subsidiary audits: we assessed the work and complex valuations to assess the range of possible disclosures.
However, due to their performed by the subsidiary audit teams on all of those alternative outcomes and used these to challenge the materiality in the context of the parent subsidiaries and considered the results of that work, on appropriateness of the valuation conclusions.
company financial statements, this is those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
considered to be the area that had the Assessing transparency: we considered the greatest effect on our overall parent company Our results: appropriateness of the Groups disclosures about the audit.
We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability impairment test and the sensitivity of the outcome of the of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2017 impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Group revenue Materiality for the Group financial The Group audit team instructed statements as a whole was set at component auditors as to the 6.0m 2017: 7.0m, determined with significant areas to be covered, reference to a benchmark of group including the relevant risks detailed profit before tax normalised to exclude above and the information to be 97% impairment on hotel assets and reported back.
2017 96% revaluation adjustments on investment properties as disclosed in note 12 and The Group audit team approved the 96 14, of which it represents 4.2% 2017: component materialities, which 4.0%.
These items are excluded due 97 ranged from 3.0m to 5.7m 2016: to their volatility.
3.5m to 6.7m having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Materiality for the parent company Group profit before tax Group across the components.
financial statements as a whole was set at 5.7m 2017: 6.7m.
This is lower The work on 2 of the 4 components than the materiality we would 2017: 2 of the 4 components was otherwise have determined by performed by component auditors reference to net assets, and represents and the rest, including the audit of 97% 0.41% of the companys net assets the parent company, was 2017 95% 2017: 0.48%.
performed by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team performed We agreed to report to the Audit & Risk 95 procedures on the items excluded Committee any corrected or from normalised group profit before 97 uncorrected identified misstatements tax.
exceeding 0.3m 2017: 0.35m, in Group total assets addition to other identified In 2018, the Group audit team visited misstatements that warranted reporting both of the two component locations on qualitative grounds.
subject to full-scope audit 2017: 2 to assess the audit risk and strategy.
The components within the scope of Telephone conference meetings our work accounted for the were also held with these 98% percentages illustrated opposite.
At these visits 2017 97% and meetings, the findings reported Of the Groups 6 2017: 6 to the Group audit team were 97 components, we subjected 4 2017: 4 discussed in more detail and any to full scope audits for Groups audit 98 further work required by the Group purposes.
These components are: the audit team was then performed by parent company, UK, US and Asia the component auditor.
Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 excluding Beijing.
Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 The remaining 3% of total Group Residual components revenue, 3% of Group total profits and losses that made up profit before tax and 2% of total Group assets is represented by 2 components Europe and Beijing.
For these remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to reNormalised profit before tax Group Materiality examine our assessment that there 142m 2017: 176m 6.0m 2017: 7.0m were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
6.0m Whole financial statements materiality 2017: 7m 4.0m Range of materiality at 3 components 3.0m to 4.0m 2017: 3.5m to 4.5m Normalised profit before 0.3m tax Misstatements reported to the Audit & Risk Committee 2017: 0.35m Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 99 5.
We Re ha sv pe e n ctiv othi e res ng to pons rep ibort o ilitien s the other information in 4.
We Cor h por ava et n e g othi over ng na to ncrep e diort o sclosn urgo esin g concern the Annual Report Directors responsibilities We are required to report to you if: The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the The Directors are responsible for the other information going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the As explained more fully in their statement set out on page we have identified material inconsistencies between the presented in the Annual Report together with the financial Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as 51, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial statements including being satisfied that they give a audit and the Directors statement that they consider not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is that the annual report and financial statements taken as express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated concluded that there are no material uncertainties that necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
that are free from material misstatement, whether due to could have cast significant doubt over their ability to provides the information necessary for shareholders to Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in continue as a going concern for at least a year from the fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys assess the Groups position and performance, business doing so, consider whether, based on our financial date of approval of the financial statements the going ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as model and strategy: or statements audit work, the information therein is materially concern period.
applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the the section of the annual report describing the work of the misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
not identified material misstatements in the other operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to information.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the Strategic report and Directors report future events or conditions and as subsequent events may Auditors responsibilities eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements Based solely on our work on the other information: specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about that were reasonable at the time they were made, the we have not identified material misstatements in the We have nothing to report in these respects.
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this Strategic report and the Directors report: material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other auditor's report is not a guarantee that the Group and the 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which in our opinion the information given in those reports for irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in Company will continue in operation.
we are required to report by exception the financial year is consistent with the financial an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we assts aur tement ance, sbut : and does not guarantee that an audit conducted Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to considered the inherent risks to the Groups and in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material in our opinion those reports have been prepared in you if, in our opinion: Companys business model, including the impact of Brexit, misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from accordance with the Companies Act 2006. and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered Companys financial resources or ability to continue Directors Remuneration Report parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably operations over the going concern period.
We evaluated not been received from branches not visited by us: or In o be e ur opi xpec niotn t ed t he o i pa nfrltue ofnc th e t e h fide irec ectonomi ors Rc emun decis er io ans tion of users those risks and concluded that they were not significant the parent Company financial statements and the part of Repor take t t no o b ne a the ud bit asi ed s o hafs t b he een fin p an roper cial sly ta p tement repared s. i n enough to require us to perform additional audit the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the procedures.
in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or DisF cRCs losur w ese o bfs p ite rinc at ipa ww l rw isk.
u onger k audtier tom rs v reis ap bio lin ty s ibilities.
Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial we have anything material to add or draw attention to in law are not made: or staIrre tement gulas ri a tie udi s t, a w bie h litya tvo e n det otec hing t material to add or draw relation to the Directors statement in Note 1 to the we have not received all the information and explanations attention to in relation to: financial statements on the use of the going concern We identified areas of laws and regulations that could we require for our audit.
basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the the Directors confirmation within the Viability We have nothing to report in these respects.
may cast significant doubt over the Groups and financial statements from our general commercial and statement on page 45 that they have carried out a Companys use of that basis for a period of at least srec obus tort e axsper ses ienc sment e, t o hrfoug theh d priis nc ci us pal si on w risks ifa th t cih ne D g thie rectors twelve months from the date of approval of the financial aGrou nd op ther, inc ma ludna ing gement those a tha st w requi our ld ed b thre y a ate udi n i tits ng s bus tainda nesrsds, statements: or amode nd fro l, m i fut ns ure pec pe tirfo on rm of t an hc e G e, r so oup lvenc s re y gu and lat lor iqui y a di nd l ty: egal correspondence and discussed with the Directors and other the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks management the policies and procedures regarding page 51 is materially inconsistent with our audit and explaining how they are being managed and compliance with laws and regulations.
mitigated: and identified laws and regulations throughout our team and We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did the Directors explanation in the Viability statement of remained alert to any indications of non-compliance not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, throughout the audit.
This included communication from the over what period they have done so and why they Group audit team to component audit teams of relevant considered that period to be appropriate, and their laws and regulations identified at Group level.
statement as to whether they have a reasonable The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the expectation that the Group will be able to continue in financial statements varies considerably.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that period of their assessment, including any related directly affect the financial statements including financial disclosures drawing attention to any necessary reporting legislation including related companies qualifications or assumptions.
legislation, distributable profits legislation and taxation Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the legislation, and we assessed the extent of compliance with Viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the respect.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
Respective responsibilities Corporate governance disclosures Directors responsibilities We are required to report to you if: As explained more fully in their statement set out on page we have identified material inconsistencies between the 51, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements financial statements including being satisfied that they give a audit and the Directors statement that they consider true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is that the annual report and financial statements taken as necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and that are free from material misstatement, whether due to provides the information necessary for shareholders to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys assess the Groups position and performance, business ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as model and strategy: or applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the the section of the annual report describing the work of the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the Auditors responsibilities eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about We have nothing to report in these respects.
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in we are required to report by exception an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material you if, in our opinion: misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from adequate accounting records have not been kept by the fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably not been received from branches not visited by us: or be expected to influence the economic decisions of users the parent Company financial statements and the part of taken on the basis of the financial statements.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or FRCs website at www.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Irregularities ability to detect we have not received all the information and explanations We identified areas of laws and regulations that could we require for our audit.
reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the We have nothing to report in these respects.
financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the Directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group audit team to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation, and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe Corporate governance disclosures Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and our responsibilities Directors responsibilities regulations where the consequences of non-compliance We are required to report to you if: could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a As explained more fully in their statement set out on page we have identified material inconsistencies between the the financial statements, for instance through the body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 51, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Groups financial statements including being satisfied that they give a audit and the Directors statement that they consider so that we might state to the Companys members those license to operate.
We identified the following areas as true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is that the annual report and financial statements taken as matters we are required to state to them in an auditors those most likely to have such an effect: health and safety, necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and anti-bribery, employment law and certain aspects of report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent that are free from material misstatement, whether due to provides the information necessary for shareholders to company legislation recognising the financial and regulated permitted by law, we do not accept or assume fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys assess the Groups position and performance, business nature of the Groups activities and its legal form.
Auditing responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as model and strategy: or standards limit the required audit procedures to identify Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the section of the annual report describing the work of the non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters of the Directors and other management and inspection of to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
procedures did not identify actual or suspected nonWe are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance compliance.
Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the Auditors responsibilities eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an Jonathan Downer specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about Senior Statutory Auditor material misstatements in the financial statements, even We have nothing to report in these respects.
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, though we have properly planned and performed our audit material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other Statutory Auditor in accordance with auditing standards.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations we are required to report by exception an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted Chartered Accountants Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material you if, in our opinion: limited procedures required by auditing standards would misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 15 Canada Square identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may London, material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably not been received from branches not visited by us: or involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, be expected to influence the economic decisions of users E14 5GL misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We the parent Company financial statements and the part of taken on the basis of the financial statements.
are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws 14 February 2019 in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or FRCs website at www.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 grand millennium, kuala lumpur
