STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46 TO 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc Report on the audit of the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs Opinion as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework In our opinion: that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial the financial statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc the Company statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 29 September 2018 Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
and of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: Basis for opinion the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under as adopted by the European Union: those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial Disclosure Framework: and statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the Group income statement: appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the Group statement of comprehensive income: the Group and Company balance sheets: the Group and Company statements of changes in equity: the Group cash flow statement: the related notes 1 to 5 of Group financial statements: and the related notes 1 to 10 of the Company financial statements Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Valuation of the pub estate Onerous lease provisions Compliance with debt covenants Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 8.8m which is approximately 5% of profit before tax before separately disclosed items.
Scoping A full scope audit has been performed in respect of the UK business, consistent with 2017.
Significant changes in our approach There has been a new key audit matter identified in relation to compliance with debt covenants.
There have been no other changes in the key audit matters included in our audit report since 2017.
This is consistent with the fact that the operations of the Group are largely unchanged from the previous year.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 93 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc continued Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw We have reviewed the Directors statement in Section 1 to the financial attention to in respect of these matters.
statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering attention to in respect of these matters.
whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 38 to 42 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 39 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 42 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
There has been a new key audit matter identified in the year in respect of compliance with the EBITDA to debt service restricted payment test.
Given the challenges in the industry with high levels of competition and inflationary cost pressures, there remains a risk that the Group does not achieve the required level of profit to meet the EBITDA to debt service restricted payment test.
94 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46 TO 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152   Keyobservations Valuation of the pub estate As set out in section 3.1 the value of the estate We worked with our property valuation specialists and managements We are in agreement is 4,230m 2017 4,230m.
external advisers to challenge the methodology and underlying with the assumptions used in the freehold and long leasehold pub estate methodology chosen Freehold and long leasehold valuation.
This included: and the assumptions The accounting policy adopted and judgements adopted to revalue used are described in section 3.1 to the financial confirming the appropriateness of the estimated FMT being used the pub estate and statements.
to value the properties: conclude there obtaining evidence to support the appropriateness of the valuations This is considered to be a key audit matter due appears to be no bias of the inspected estate when benchmarked to transaction activity to the judgements inherent within the valuation in the valuation.
The in the licensed retail property market: exercise and the range of acceptable judgements.
multiples adopted The total net book value of revalued properties as testing the application of the multiple derived from the valuation across the estate are at 29 September 2018 is 4,230m 2017 4,230m.
of inspected properties to the rest of the estate: within a reasonable The revaluation exercise performed in the year has range.
We concur completing a retrospective review of the valuation of sites subject resulted in a net decrease of 33m versus carrying that the valuations to expansionary capital investment in the prior year to identify value 2017 23m, which includes an impairment are suitable for the success of returns on investment: charge of 28m 2017 51m recognised in the inclusion in the reviewing the appropriateness and completeness of any spot income statement.
The Groups accounting policy financial statements.
valuations made: and sets out that the market value is determined using obtaining evidence to support the future projected income used factors such as estimated fair maintainable trading in the impairment reviews for sites which have been impacted levels and estimated multiples which are derived by expansionary capital investment in the preceding 12 months.
for each of the Groups trading brands.
Approximately 20% of the freehold and long Additionally we: leasehold estate has been inspected by the Groups assessed the design and implementation and tested the operating external valuers, with the result of the inspection effectiveness of controls in relation to the valuation of the freehold informing the brand standard multiples which and long leasehold estate.
are then extrapolated across the remainder of the estate.
In specific circumstances where this approach does not fairly represent the underlying value of the property, for example if a site is loss making, a spot valuation is applied.
Where sites have been impacted by expansionary capital investment in the preceding 12 months, the valuation of those properties is held at the 30 September 2017 valuation plus capital expenditure less depreciation in 2018.
Sites that have been open for more than three periods 2017 three periods are reviewed for impairment.
Short leasehold The accounting policy adopted and judgements used are described in section 3.1 to the financial statements.
The total value of short leasehold properties as at 29 September 2018 is 156m 2017 170m.
Judgements in relation to expected trading levels, whether the site has the potential to be turned around and discount rates are applied when calculating short leasehold property impairments.
The Group recorded an impairment charge of 15m 2017 17m in the year.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 95 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc continued   Keyobservations Valuation of the pub estate continued Focus areas We challenged the assumptions used by management within the Given the amounts capitalised and the risk impairment reviews performed for the short leasehold estate and associated across the freehold, long leasehold freehold and long leasehold sites impacted by expansionary capital.
and short leasehold sites we have focused This included: our procedures on the assessment made obtaining evidence to support managements assertion that short by management of: leasehold properties can be successfully turned around where the appropriateness of the fair maintainable properties have not been impaired due to managements trading levels and brand multiple assumptions expectation that the performance of the properties will improve.
applied to the freehold and long leasehold This included obtaining evidence to support managements estate on a site by site basis: turnaround plans and performance of a retrospective review considering the success of historic turnaround plans: the valuation of freehold and long leasehold sites obtaining evidence to support managements expected impacted by expansionary capital, challenging performance of sites post investment of expansionary capital the need for any impairment of property, plant and a retrospective review of prior year sites where expansionary and equipment required at an individual outlet capital was incurred: level: and testing the integrity of the information used within the model the requirement for any impairment in respect by agreeing inputs back to source data including historical results of the property, plant and equipment held in and lease terms: and the short leasehold estate at an individual assessing the appropriateness of the discount rate through outlet level.
recalculation and performing sensitivity analysis.
In addition, due to the level of subjective Additionally, we assessed the design and implementation and tested judgements involved in respect of multiple and the operating effectiveness of controls in relation to the short leasehold fair maintainable trade assumptions which are impairment review.
inherently uncertain, we have identified a potential risk of fraud in this key audit matter.
Onerous Lease Provisions As set out in section 3.3, property provisions are We performed the following procedures to respond to the key We agree that 43m 2017 42m of which 41.9m 2017 41.9m audit matter: the level of onerous relates to onerous lease provisions.
The accounting lease provision is we assessed the appropriateness of the classification of property policy for provisions is set out in section 3.3. within a reasonable provisions provided in the period as a before separately disclosed range and that the Loss-making short leasehold properties are item in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: presentation of the reviewed by management to determine whether an we checked that all leasehold sites were considered in movements in onerous lease provision is required.
Judgements in managements process to identify sites which were potentially onerous lease relation to expected trading levels, the appropriate subject to onerous leases: provision is in lease term over which to provide, the potential where onerous lease provisions have not been recognised, accordance with opportunity to exit the leases early and the despite historical results indicating that a provision may be required, IAS 1. appropriate discount rate to use are applied when we obtained evidence to support managements assertion that assessing the level of onerous lease provision properties can be successfully turned around.
Therefore we have identified a potential assessing the success of previous actions undertaken by risk of fraud in this key audit matter.
management to turn around similar sites: Focus areas we tested a sample of loss making short leasehold and unlicensed Given the size of the leasehold estate there is a risk properties to create an expectation of the appropriate level of that where a site is underperforming the cash flows onerous lease provision for each property within our sample and may not be adequate to cover future lease compared our expectation with the level of onerous lease provision obligations, resulting in the requirement for for each property: an onerous lease provision for the unavoidable we assessed the appropriateness of forecast EBITDAs taking into cash flow.
We focused on the completeness consideration the cost saving and sales opportunities identified of the onerous lease provision by assessing the by management following a benchmarking exercise: judgements used in arriving at the level of the we tested the integrity of the information used within the onerous provision for each site.
Furthermore, we also lease provision calculation by agreeing inputs back to source data focused on sites where a turnaround or exit plan including historical results, and rental commitments: and is in place.
we assessed the appropriateness of the risk free discount rate used through comparison to appropriate external benchmarks.
Additionally we assessed the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of controls in relation to the calculation of the onerous lease provision.
96 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46 TO 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152   Keyobservations Compliance with debt covenants The primary source of borrowings for the Group We performed the following procedures to respond to the key We have considered are secured loan notes of 1,784m at 29 September audit matter: reasonably possible 2018.
This debt is secured on the majority of the downside scenarios assessed the design and implementation of controls in relation properties owned by the Group properties held and we have identified to the management review of Budget and covenants calculations: within a subsidiary Company Mitchells & Butlers that adequate reviewed managements going concern and longer-term viability Retail Limited.
The Group also has 150m of headroom exists.
assessment, by challenging management to understand the key unsecured credit facilities.
There are covenants Furthermore, we are in drivers forming the basis of the EBITDA forecasts and challenging attached to both the secured loan notes and the agreement that should the assumptions used in the base case scenario using industry unsecured revolving credit facilities.
a covenant be close forecasts, historical performance and our understanding of to being breached, Given challenges in the industry with high levels the business: management have of competition, inflationary cost pressures and challenged the appropriateness of the reasonably possible further actions that increasing uncertainties around Britain exiting sensitivities used in managements downside scenario over could be undertaken from the European Union, we identified that the the longer-term viability period: in order to prevent forecasting of EBITDA during the long-term such a breach reviewed and challenged managements key assumptions by viability period is subject to significant judgements occurring.
Therefore, reference to independent industry sources and relevant supporting and estimates.
we concur with the evidence and sensitising the impact these have on managements The key risk identified is the Groups ability to meet management assessment of the profitability: the forecasted EBITDA over the longer-term viability assumptions made considered the feasibility of the mitigating actions that management period for the financial covenants attached to the in relation to going have at their disposal should the financial covenant test be close to secured loan notes.
This test is measured at each concern and long-term being breached: and quarter end date for Mitchells & Butlers Retail Limited.
viability of the Group reviewed the disclosures on going concern and longer-term viability and the resulting Debt covenants are further disclosed within to confirm that they are consistent with the knowledge we have disclosures included Note 4.2 of the Group Financial Statements, acquired during the course of our audit and to confirm that the in the long-term as well as being disclosed in the Long-Term disclosures are consistent with the overall requirement for the viability statement.
Annual Report to be fair, balanced and understandable.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Materiality 8.8m 2017 8.75m 8.5m 2017 8.7m Basis for determining Approximately 5% 2017 5% of profit before tax adjusted for net profit arising Parent company materiality equates materiality on property disposals, movements in the valuation of the property portfolio to 0.4% of net assets, which is capped and short leasehold impairment and separately disclosed pension legal costs.
Adjusted items relate to separately disclosed items in note 2.2 2017 profit before tax adjusted for net profit arising on property disposals, movements in the valuation of the property portfolio and short leasehold impairment and the separately disclosed onerous lease provision charge.
Rationale for the Profit before tax before separately disclosed items is a key measure used The parent company does not trade benchmark applied by the Group in reporting its results to allow a better understanding of the or exist for profit generating purposes adjusted trading of the Group and is also a key measure considered by users so materiality has been determined of the accounts.
Component Group materiality range Adjusted PBT 178m materiality 8m 9m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.44m  Mitchells & Butlers plc 97 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc continued We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work Committee all audit differences in excess of 440,000 2017 437,500, of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required presentation of the financial statements.
under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified An overview of the scope of our audit for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
on that assessment, we performed a full scope audit in respect of the UK retail operating business which accounts for 99% 2017 99% of Responsibilities of Directors the Groups total assets, 96% 2017 97% of revenue and 96% 2017 98% of operating profit.
This audit work was performed directly by the Group As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the audit engagement team, who also tested the consolidation process.
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements Given the relative size of the German business ALEX we consider and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such the UK business provides sufficient audit assurance over the Group internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the balances.
This approach is consistent with 2017.
At the parent entity preparation of financial statements that are free from material level we also tested the consolidation process, as well as the parent misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
balance sheet to parent company materiality.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for In responding to the assessed risks of material misstatement, the audit assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going engagement team sought to place reliance on the operating effectiveness concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and of the Groups controls in relation to revenue, food and drink using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either expenditure, property, plant and equipment, onerous lease provisions intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, and valuation of the pub estate.
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Our audit work on the UK business was executed at levels of materiality Auditors responsibilities for the audit applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group of the financial statements materiality and ranged from 1 to 8.5m 2017 0.27m to 8.7m.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Fullaudit Reviewat financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, scope grouplevel whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes Revenue 96% 4% our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not Profit before tax 96% 4% a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will Net assets 99% 1% always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic Other information decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our www.
This description forms report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
part of our auditors report.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the Extent to which the audit was considered capable other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of detecting irregularities, including fraud or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial materially misstated.
statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and we are required to report that fact.
regulations, our procedures included the following: In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you enquiring of management, Group Assurance, in-house legal counsel, as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include including the Company Secretary and General Counsel, and the where we conclude that: Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements relating to: taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: and performance, business model and strategy, is materially detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: 98 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46 TO 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 discussing among the engagement team and involving relevant internal Matters on which we are required to report by exception specialists, including tax, pensions, IT and property specialists regarding Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified in our opinion: potential for fraud in the following areas: valuation of pub estate, we have not received all the information and explanations we require onerous lease provisions and compliance with debt covenants: and for our audit: or obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental branches not visited by us: or effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the Rules, pensions legislation, and tax legislation.
Audit response to risks identified We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
As a result of performing the above, we identified valuation of the pub Directors remuneration estate, onerous lease provisions and compliance with debt covenants Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in as key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report explains our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is we performed in response to those key audit matters.
not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
included the following: Other matters reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting Auditor tenure documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were regulations discussed above: appointed by the Board on 10 February 2011 to audit the financial enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house legal statements for the 52 weeks ending 24 September 2011 and subsequent counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is eight years, performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or covering the years ending 24 September 2011 to 29 September 2018. unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit reviewing Group Assurance reports: and Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other Use of our report adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the or outside the normal course of business.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members, including permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone internal specialists, and remained alert to any indications of fraud other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements John Charlton FCA Senior Statutory Auditor Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited Statutory Auditor has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
London, United Kingdom In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: 21 November 2018 the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors report.
