146 Financial statements Directors responsibility statement 147 Independent auditors report to the members of Mondi plc and theshareholders of Mondi Limited 148 Combined and consolidated income statement 158 Combined and consolidated statement of comprehensive income 159 Combined and consolidated statement of financial position 160 Combined and consolidated statement of changes in equity 161 Combined and consolidated statement of cash flows 162 Notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements: Note 1 Basis of preparation 163 Note 2 Operating segments 163 Notes 37 Notes to the combined and consolidated incomestatement 168 Notes 89 Per share measures 172 Notes 1018 Notes to the combined and consolidated statement offinancial position 174 Notes 1922 Capital management 181 Note 23 Retirement benefits 187 Notes 2425 Notes to the combined and consolidated statement ofcash flows 191 Notes 2631 Other disclosures 197 Note 32 Accounting policies 205 Note 33 Restatement of comparative information 214 Mondi Limited parent company statement of financial position 217 Mondi Limited parent company statement of changes in equity 218 Extract of the notes to the audited Mondi Limited parent company financialstatements 219 Mondi plc parent company balance sheet 221 Mondi plc parent company statement of changes in equity 221 Notes to the Mondi plc parent company financial statements 222 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors responsibility statement 147 The directors are responsible for preparing the Integrated report, Remuneration report and Financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
South African and UK company law require the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
e Under the Companies Act of South Africa 2008, the directors are required to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the requirements of the Act for each financial year, giving a true and fair view of the Mondi Limited parent companys and the Groups state of affairs at the end of the year and profit or loss for the year.
e Under the UK Companies Act 2006, the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and have elected to prepare the Mondi plc parent company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
Furthermore, under UK company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the Groups financial statements and the Mondi Limited parent company financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, requires that the directors: e properly select and apply accounting policies: e present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: e provide additional disclosure when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and e make an assessment of the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
In preparing the Mondi plc parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: e select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: e make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: e state whether FRS 101 has been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and e prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and parent companies transactions: disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the Group and parent companies: and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa 2008 and the UK Companies Act 2006 respectively.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and parent companies and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Report on the financial statements These financial statements have been prepared under the supervision of the Group Chief Financial Officer, Andrew King CA SA, and have been audited in accordance with the applicable requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa 2008 and the UK Companies Act 2006.
The Boards confirm that to the best of their knowledge: e the financial statements of the Group and Mondi Limited, prepared in accordance with IFRS and, in respect of the Group financial statements only, also IFRS as adopted by the EU, and Mondi plc, prepared in accordance with FRS 101, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Mondi Limited, Mondi plc and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: e the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of Mondi Limited, Mondi plc and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and e the Integrated report and financial statements 2018, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The Groups combined and consolidated financial statements, and related notes 1 to 33, were approved by the Boards and authorised for issue on 27February2019, and were signed on their behalf by: Peter Oswald Andrew King Director Director Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 148 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Mondi plc and of  Inc. to the shareholders of Mondi Limited Mondi plc and Mondi Limited operate under a dual listed company structure as a single economic entity.
The Group consists of Mondi plc, Mondi Limited and their respective subsidiaries.
The Group financial statements combine and consolidate the financial statements of the Group and include the Groups share of joint arrangements and associates.
 LLP is the appointed auditor of Mondi plc, a company incorporated in the United Kingdom in terms of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
 Inc. is the appointed auditor of Mondi Limited, a company incorporated in South Africa in terms of the Companies Act of South Africa.
 LLP and  Inc. each separately the Group engagement team audited the financial statements of the Group.
 LLP audited the Group financial statements and Mondi plc parent company financial statements for the year ended 31December 2018.
 Inc. audited the Group financial statements for the year ended 31December 2018.
For the purpose of this report, the terms we and our denote  LLP in relation to UK legal, professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Mondi plc and  Inc. in relation to South African legal, professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the shareholders of Mondi Limited.
For the purposes of the Our audit approach section of this report, we and our refer to the Group engagement team, except for the purposes of the table on pages 150 to 152 that sets out the key audit matters and how our audit addressed the key audit matters, where the terms we and our refer to  LLP and or  Inc. and or our component teams.
Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion Opinion of  LLP on the financial statements to the members of Mondi plc In our opinion: e the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of Mondi plc parent companys affairs as at 31December 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: e the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: e the Mondi plc parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and e the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Separate opinion of  LLP in relation to the Group financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Opinion of  Inc. on the Group financial statements to the shareholders of Mondi Limited In our opinion, the Group financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the combined and consolidated financial position of the Group as at 31December 2018 and its combined and consolidated financial performance and its combined and consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and the provisions of the Companies Act of South Africa.
What we have audited  LLP and  Inc. have audited the Group financial statements set out on pages 158 to 216 of the Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 the Integrated Report, which comprise: e the combined and consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018: e the combined and consolidated income statement for the year then ended: e the combined and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: e the combined and consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: e the combined and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and e the notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements, which include a summary of the significant accounting policies.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 149  LLP has audited the Mondi plc parent company financial statements set out on pages 221 to 228 of the Integrated Report, which comprise: e the Mondi plc parent company balance sheet as at 31December 2018: e the Mondi plc parent company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and e the notes to the Mondi plc parent company financial statements, which include a summary of the significant accounting policies.
The Group financial statements and the Mondi plc parent company financial statements are referred to in this report as the financial statements.
Basis for opinion  LLP conducted their audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
 Inc. conducted their audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs.
Our responsibilities under ISAs and ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions.
Independence  LLP remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or Mondi plc.
Other than those disclosed in note 4 to the Group financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or Mondi plc in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31December 2018.
 Inc. is independent of the Group in accordance with the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors Code of Professional Conduct for Registered Auditors IRBA Code and other independence requirements applicable to performing audits of financial statements in South Africa.
We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IRBA Code and in accordance with other ethical requirements applicable to performing audits in South Africa.
The IRBA Code is consistent with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants Parts A and B.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 55 million 2017: 45 million, based on approximately 5% of profit before tax adjusted for special items.
Overall Mondi plc parent company materiality: 29 million 2017: 30 million, based on 1% of total assets.
We identified three components 2017: one as individually significant components which required an audit of their complete financial information due to their financial significance to the Group and a further seven components 2017: nine where we have concluded that the component engagement leader is a Key Audit Partner as defined under ISAs UK.
These ten components are located in Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Poland, Russia, Sweden, Slovakia and South Africa 2017: Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, Poland, Russia, Slovakia and South Africa.
We obtained full scope audit reporting from an additional 18 components 2017: 18, including operating units and treasury operations.
Specified audit procedures or specified procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 19 components 2017: 26.
We assessed the risks of material misstatement in the Group financial statements and determined the following key audit matters for2018: e Taxation: e Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment: e Acquisition of Powerflute Group Holdings Oy Powerflute : and e Adoption of IFRS 16 Leases.
Valuation of forestry assets and capital expenditure were considered key audit matters for 2017, but were not areas of most significance in the audit of the financial statements in 2018.
No key audit matters specific to the Mondi plc parent company financial statements were identified.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we considered where the directors made subjective judgements: for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 150 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Mondi plc and of  Inc. to the shareholders of Mondi Limited Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the Group and the industry in which it operates, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to breaches of environmental regulations and unethical and prohibited business practices see pages45 and 46 of the Integrated Report, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the UK Companies Act 2006, the Companies Act of South Africa 2008, the UK Listing Rules and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited Listings Requirements.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to increase revenue and management bias in accounting estimates.
We shared this risk assessment with the component auditors referred to in the scoping section of our report below, so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors included: e Discussions with management, internal audit and the Groups legal advisors, including consideration of potential instances of noncompliance with laws and regulation and fraud: e Assessment of matters reported through the Groups whistleblowing helpline and the results of managements investigation of such matters: and e Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to taxation, assessment of indicators of impairment of property, plant and equipment and the acquisition of Powerflute see related key audit matters below.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period.
In terms of ISAs UK, they include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Taxation The Group has operations in a number of Our audit work, which involved taxation audit specialists at Group and in specific geographical locations and as such is subject to locations where local tax knowledge was considered necessary, included the multiple tax jurisdictions, giving rise to complexity in assessment of the Groups uncertain tax positions.
As part of our audit challenge, accounting for the Groups taxation.
we also involved transfer pricing experts to consider the appropriateness of the Groups assessment of its exposure to transfer pricing related risks and related In particular, the interpretation of complex tax corporate tax provisions.
regulations and the unknown future outcome of any pending judgements by the tax authorities Our assessment included reading correspondence with tax authorities to results in the need to provide against a number of understand the current status of tax assessments and investigations and to uncertain tax positions.
There are also cross-border monitor developments in ongoing disputes.
We also read recent rulings by transactions which give rise to transfer pricing local tax authorities, as well as external tax advice received by the Group where related risks that require judgement to determine relevant, to satisfy ourselves that the tax provisions had been appropriately the appropriate tax charge and any associated recorded or adjusted to reflect the latest tax legislative developments.
provisions, and for these reasons we considered it In assessing the adequacy of the tax provisions, we considered factors such to be a key audit matter.
as possible penalties and interest which could be imposed by the local tax Refer to notes 7 and 32, and the Audit Committees authorities.
We also determined whether the tax provisions are recognised in views set out on page 109. accordance with the relevant accounting standards.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 7 and note 32 to the financial statements.
Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues from ourwork.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 151 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment The Group has goodwill of 942 million 2017: We satisfied ourselves as to the appropriateness of the judgement related to 698 million and property, plant and equipment the level at which impairment is assessed for property, plant and equipment, of 4,340 million 2017 restated: 4,128 million being the lowest level at which largely independent cash inflows can be as at 31 December 2018.
Impairment charges to identified the CGUs.
We also assessed the level at which goodwill is property, plant and equipment of 74 million monitored for impairment.
2017: 50 million have been recognised in the For property, plant and equipment, we evaluated managements assessment current year.
of impairment indicators, as well as indicators of impairment reversal, including For property, plant and equipment, management the conclusions reached.
Our evaluation included assessing managements is required to determine the recoverable amount process to identify impairment triggers, together with an assessment of of an asset, or the cash-generating unit CGU to business performance in the year, including specific consideration of the which the asset relates, when an impairment trigger impact of the business restructurings and plant closures announced during is identified.
The identification as to whether an 2018. impairment or impairment reversal trigger exists Where impairment tests were performed, including on goodwill, we involves management judgement.
challenged the basis for managements estimates of growth rates and For those items of property, plant and equipment future cash flows with reference to historical trading performance, market where an indicator of impairment was identified, expectations and management forecasts.
We used our internal valuation and for the groups of CGUs to which goodwill experts to independently recalculate the discount rates applied and checked relates which require an annual impairment test, the mathematical accuracy of managements valuation models.
the determination of the recoverable amount, For the groups of CGUs that have goodwill attached to them, we also being the higher of value in use VIU and fair compared the Groups market capitalisation with the aggregate enterprise value less costs of disposal FVLCD, requires value reflected in managements impairment models.
judgement and estimation by management.
This is because the determination of a recoverable We recalculated managements assessment of the sensitivity of the Groups amount includes managements consideration of goodwill impairment models to reasonably possible changes in the key key internal inputs and external market conditions assumptions and considered the appropriateness of disclosures provided by such as future paper prices, customer demand the Group in relation to its impairment reviews.
and forecast growth rates, which all impact future We focused our procedures on property, plant and equipment at those discounted cash flows and the determination of sites where there was a decline in performance year-on-year and on the the most appropriate discount rate.
Therefore, we Consumer Packaging goodwill balance.
We also tested the impairments of considered it to be a key audit matter.
property, plant and equipment recorded in special items in the year ended Refer to notes 1, 10, 12 and 32, and the Audit 31December 2018.
Committees views set out on page 108.
Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues from our work.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 152 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Mondi plc and of  Inc. to the shareholders of Mondi Limited Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Acquisition of Powerflute Group Holdings Oy Powerflute The Group acquired 100% of the outstanding We evaluated the underlying acquisition agreements for the appropriate share capital of Powerflute on 1 June 2018 for a accounting treatment in terms of IFRS 3 and the Groups accounting policy.
The acquisition We held discussions with management to obtain an understanding of resulted in goodwill of 242 million.
managements process for identifying all separately identifiable assets acquired The fair value accounting for the acquisition and liabilities assumed and inspected managements documented process.
was determined by management, with support In assessing the completeness and appropriateness of the identification from an external expert, on a provisional basis in of assets acquired and liabilities assumed we read the Groups Board and accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Executive Committee minutes to understand the rationale for the acquisition, The determination of the fair value of assets critically evaluated the underlying acquisition agreements, utilised the and liabilities is a complex subject matter experience of our internal valuation experts and conducted a site visit to the and management has applied estimates and acquired operations in Kuopio, Finland, with specific focus on the inspection judgements in determining the net assets acquired of the integrated pulp and paper mill.
and, therefore, we considered it to be a key audit We also assessed the independence, professional competence, objectivity matter.
Key estimates and judgements involve and capabilities of managements external valuations expert involved in the identification of the assets acquired and determining the fair value of the net assets acquired.
liabilities assumed, determination of any separately identifiable intangible assets and the valuation of In assessing the work performed by managements external valuation expert assets and liabilities that are recognised.
we utilised our internal valuation expertise to: e Assess the adequacy and appropriateness of the valuation methodologies Refer to notes 12, 24 and 32, and the Audit used to value the recognised assets and liabilities: Committees views set out on page 109. e Assess the appropriateness of the assumptions used in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed with specific focus on the replacement cost values and remaining useful lives assumed in the valuation of property, plant and equipment: and e Recompute the resulting goodwill recognised on acquisition.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosure in notes 12, 24 and 32 to the financial statements.
Adoption of IFRS 16 Leases The Group elected to early adopt IFRS 16 Leases We obtained the Groups calculation of the right-of-use asset, lease liability, fully retrospectively.
This new accounting standard depreciation charge and interest on the lease liability based on the lease data requires a lessee to recognise a right-of-use asset for the population of leases identified.
representing its right to use the underlying leased We performed procedures to assess the completeness of managements asset, and a lease liability representing its obligation listing of the lease contracts in place, including reading new contracts and to make lease payments.
management meeting minutes and assessing expense accounts.
Management has applied judgement in assessing We tested the accuracy of the lease data compiled by management by whether new arrangements contain a lease, agreeing key inputs to the underlying arrangements to ensure the accuracy of determining the lease terms, calculating the discount key data points used in determining the IFRS 16 accounting entries.
rate and concluding whether any service or lease components of lease arrangements need to be Where appropriate, we evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the separated.
Therefore, we considered it to be a key operating effectiveness of the internal controls over the recording of the IFRS audit matter.
Our testing included an evaluation of the mathematical accuracy of the underlying calculations.
As at 31 December 2018 the Group has recorded a right-of-use asset of 148 million 2017: 169 million We also involved our internal valuation experts to consider the appropriateness and lease liabilities of 184 million 2017: 208 million.
of the Groups assessment of the discount rates used in the lease calculations.
The depreciation charge recognised on the rightWe assessed the rationale and approach in determining the discount rates of-use assets was 27 million 2017: 27 million applied for a sample of the leases.
and the interest on lease liabilities 14 million 2017: Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues from 14million.
Refer to notes 6, 11, 32 and 33, and the Audit Committees views set out on page 109.
 LLP have determined that there are no additional key audit matters to communicate in our report with regard to the audit of the Mondi plc parent company financial statements for the current period.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 153 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the parent companies, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at components by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors operating under our instruction.
We identified three components 2017: one as significant components as defined within ISAs UK and ISAs which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their financial significance to the Group.
Outside of these components, we obtained full scope audit reporting from a further seven components 2017: nine, where we concluded that the component engagement leader is a Key Audit Partner as defined under ISAs UK, and an additional 18 components where full scope audits were performed 2017: 18.
Together, these components were in 11 countries 2017: nine, representing the Groups principal businesses, and accounted for 67% 2017: 66% of the Groups revenue.
Specified audit procedures or specified procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 19 2017: 26 components and central testing was performed on selected items, such as goodwill, primarily to ensure appropriate audit coverage.
In aggregate, the locations subject to audit procedures represented 81% 2017: 84% of the Groups revenue.
The components included within our scope of audit were determined based on the individual components contribution to the group key financial statement line items in particular revenue and profit or loss before tax, and considerations relating to aggregation risk within the Group.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those components to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
We issued formal written instructions to all component auditors setting out the audit work to be performed by each of them and maintained regular communication with them throughout the audit cycle.
These interactions included attending certain component clearance meetings, as well as reviewing and assessing any matters reported.
The Group engagement team also reviewed selected audit working papers for certain in-scope component teams.
In addition, senior members of the Group engagement team from the UK and or South Africa visited component teams in Austria, the Czech Republic, Finland, Germany, Poland, Russia, Slovakia, South Africa and Sweden.
These visits included meetings with local management and with the component auditors, and typically involved operating site tours.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Mondi plc parent company financial statements Overall materiality 55 million 2017: 45 million.
How we determined it Based on approximately 5% of profit before 1% of total assets.
tax adjusted for special items as described in note 3 to the financial statements.
Rationale for benchmark For overall Group materiality, we chose an For overall Mondi plc parent company materiality, applied adjusted profit before tax measure as the  LLP determined the benchmark.
The adjusted profit before tax materiality based on total assets, which is more measure removes the impact of significant appropriate than a performance-related measure items which do not recur from year to year as the company is an investment holding company orotherwise significantly affect the underlying for the Group.
Using professional judgement, trend of performance from continuing  LLP determined materiality operations.
This is the metric against which for this year at 29 million 2017: 30 million, which the performance of the Group is most equates to approximately 1% of the current years total commonly assessed by management and assets.
We chose 5%, which is consistent with quantitative materiality thresholds used for profit-oriented companies in this sector.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 154 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Mondi plc and of  Inc. to the shareholders of Mondi Limited For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 2 million 2017: 1.5 million and 40 million 2017: 37 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 2 million 2017: 2 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK  LLP report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome ISAs UK require us to report to you when: We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this e the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Mondi plcs preparation of the financial statements is not appropriate: or ability to continue as a going concern.
For example, the terms e the directors have not disclosed in the financial statements any on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the European identified material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, are not about the Groups and Mondi plcs ability to continue to adopt clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications on the going concern basis of accounting for a period of at least the companys trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
twelve months from the date when the financial statements are authorised for issue.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Other information Reporting on other information by  LLP The other information comprises all of the information in the Integrated Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and the Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the UK Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Mondi plc parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
CA06 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 155 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: e The directors confirmation on page 39 of the Integrated Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
e The disclosures in the Integrated Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
e The directors explanation on page 47 of the Integrated Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Mondi plc parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: e The statement given by the directors, on page 147, that they consider the Integrated Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Mondi plc parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Mondi plc parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
e The section of the Integrated Report on pages 108 and 109 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
e The directors statement relating to Mondi plcs compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Reporting on other information by  Inc.
The other information comprises the contents of the Mondi Group Integrated Report listed on page 3 outside of the Group financial statements being the Overview, the Strategic report, the Governance section, the Directors responsibility statement, the Mondi plc parent company financial statements, the extracted financial information of Mondi Limited parent company audited financial statements, the Group financial record, Production statistics, Exchange rates, Additional information for Mondi plc shareholders, Shareholder information, and the Glossary of terms and the contents of the Mondi Limited audited annual financial statements.
Other information does not include the Group financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the Group financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express an audit opinion or any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Group financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Group financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
