Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MONEYSUPERMARKET.
Our opinion is unmodified The risk Our response We have audited the Financial Statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated completeness and Forecast based valuation Our procedures included: Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Company Balance Sheet and Company Statement of Changes in valuation of intangibles There is significant judgment with regard control design: Equity, and the related notes including the accounting policies in note 2. arising from the to the assumptions and estimates Testing the design and implementation of the controls over purchase of decision involved in the forecasting of future cash the acquisition accounting: technologies limited flows that form the basis of the In our opinion: Assessing experts: and its subsidiaries assessment of the value of the domain the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December Understanding the work of the expert by inspecting the names and the costs of rebuild for the 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: engagement letter and making inquiries of the expert.
Intangible assets of 8.7 software assets on acquisition.
The key the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Evaluating their competence, capability and objectivity: million assumptions for the domain names are adopted by the European Union: our valuation expertise: the expected future revenue and the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS With the assistance of our own valuation specialists, we Refer to page 50 Audit discount rate applied to the cash flows 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and assessed the appropriateness of the valuation Committee Report, and for the software assets, the time the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the methodologies applied and challenged the completeness of page 91 accounting taken to build the assets and the cost Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the intangible assets identified, the discount rate for the policy and pages 112 to rate applied to this time.
domain names and the time incurred and costs associated 113 financial disclosures.
Basis for opinion with the software assets: and Given the level of goodwill recognised on We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities this acquisition, there is a risk that not all Historical comparison: are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit intangibles have been recognised on Challenging the reasonableness of the assumptions, opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
particularly the projected sales volumes, by assessing the historical accuracy of the Groups forecasting.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 22 April 2008.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 12 financial The effect of these matters is that, as years ended 31 December 2018.
Prior to that we were also auditor to the Groups previous parent company, but which, being unlisted, part of our risk assessment, we our results was not a public-interest entity.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in determined that the recognition and We found the completeness and valuation of intangibles accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit valuation of intangibles has a high arising from the purchase of Decision Technologies Limited services prohibited by that standard were provided.
degree of estimation uncertainty, with a and its subsidiaries to be acceptable.
potential range of reasonable outcomes overview greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
In Materiality: 5.0m 2017:4.8m conducting our final audit work, we Group Financial Statements as a whole 4.7% 2017: 5% of Group profit before tax reassessed the degree of estimation uncertainty to be less than materiality.
coverage 100% 2017:100% of Group profit before tax Key audit matters vs 2017 Revenue recognition: subjective estimate Our procedures included: new: Completeness and valuation of intangibles Revenue accrual Judgement is required to estimate control design and operation: Testing, with the assistance event driven arising from the purchase of Decision Technologies 31.1 million: 2017: unbilled revenue at the period end.
of our own IT specialists, the design and operating Limited and its subsidiaries 23.5million Revenue is recognised predominantly effectiveness of the general IT control environments and from internet lead generation click Revenue recognition: application controls in the click recording system: Recurring risks Refer to page 50 Audit based revenues.
Accrued revenue as at Revenue accrual test of details: Agreeing a sample of the revenue accrual Committee Report, period end is recorded based on an where the invoice has been raised only raised if the provider Capitalisation of software and development page92 accounting estimation of the likely number of has confirmed the amount to be billed and or cash received costs policy and page 105 successful conversions.
post year end: financial disclosures.
Recoverability of Parent Companys investment in test of details: We developed an expectation for the The effect of these matters is that, as subsidiary and debt due from group entities uninvoiced element of the accrual based on historical cash part of our risk assessment for audit receipts and considered whether this was within an planning purposes, we determined that 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement acceptable range of the amount recorded: and the revenue accrual had a high degree of Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial estimation uncertainty, with a potential Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, range of reasonable outcomes greater Groups disclosures in respect of the judgement and including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the than our materiality for the financial estimates around the revenue accrual.
efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our statements as a whole.
In conducting audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our our final audit work, we reassessed the our results results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, degree of estimation uncertainty to be We found the resulting estimate of the revenue accrual to be and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently less than materiality.
are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We continue to perform procedures over revenue recognition and the complexities involved in the recording of the internet lead generation click based revenue.
However, in light of the acquisition and resulting increase in the level of revenue accrual, we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 Moneysupermarket.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 80 81 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MONEYSUPERMARKET.
COM GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set at 5.0 million 2017: 4.8 million, determined with a reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of 106.9 million, of which it represents 4.7% 2017: 5.0% of Group profit before tax.
The risk Our response Materiality for the Parent Company Financial Statements as a whole was set at 4.0 million 2017: 4.0 million, determined with a capitalisation of Accounting treatment Our procedures included: reference to a benchmark of Parent Company total assets of 758.4 million 2017: 450.6 million, of which it represents 0.5% software and The criteria for capitalising software and control design: Testing the operating effectiveness of the 2017: 0.9% of Parent Company total assets.
development costs development costs incurred, including controls over purchase order and invoice authorisation of 12.8 million: 2017: assessing whether the costs are directly projects, to evidence the appropriate level and approval over We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.25 million 2017: 0.24 15.8million attributable to the development project total project spend and expenditure being capital in nature: million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
and whether the completion of the Accounting analysis: Assess whether the costs have been Refer to page 50 Audit related asset is technically feasible, appropriately capitalised, by reference to the recognition Of the Groups 7 2017: 6 reporting components, we subjected 6 2017: 6 to full scope audits for Group purposes and 1 to specified Committee Report, requires the application of judgement.
criteria to the applicable accounting standard, including risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter was not individually financially significant enough to require a full scope audit for group page93 accounting challenging the Groups assessment of the technical purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed, all of which were performed by the Group team.
policy and page 102, 103 feasibility of the related assets based on discussions with and 104 financial Capital Project managers and inspecting business cases, The components within the scope of our work accounted for 100% of the Groups revenue 2017: 100%, 100% of the Groups profit disclosures.
submitted prior to the cost being incurred: before tax 2017: 100% and 100% 2017: 100% of the Groups total assets.
test of details: Comparing a sample of costs capitalised to external invoices: Group profit before tax Group materiality Group total Group Group profit Benchmarking assumptions: Assessing the reasonableness assets revenue before tax 106.9m 5.0m of the assumptions included in the determination of the 3 4 1 expected future economic benefit of the capitalised projects 2017: 4.8m 2017: 96.1m including assessing the consistency of the assumptions from knowledge gained performing our audit procedures: and 5.0m 100% 100% 100% Whole financial Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the 2017 100% 2017 100% 2017 100% statements materiality Groups disclosures in respect of the capitalisation of 2017: 4.8m software and development costs.
100 100 100 97 96 99 our results We found the capitalisation of software and development Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 4.5m costs to be acceptable.
Range of materiality specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 at 7 2017: 6 components Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 0.1m to 4.0m Removal of risk in respect of recoverability of software and development assets: We continue to perform procedures over 2017: 0.1m to 4.0m recoverability of software and development assets.
However, the recoverability of these assets was identified as a key audit matter in light of the strategic review in the prior year.
As the strategic review has now concluded, we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
0.25m Misstatements reported Group profit before tax to the Audit Committee Recoverability of parent low risk, high value Our procedures included: 2017: 0.24m Group materiality companys investment The carrying amount of the Parent test of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of the insubsidiary and debt Companys investment in subsidiary and investment with the subsidiarys draft balance sheet to identify due from group entities debt due from group entities represents whether its net assets, being an approximation of its minimum 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern 99.8% 2017: 99.8% of the Companys recoverable amount, was in excess of its carrying amount: and The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Investment in subsidiary total assets.
Their recoverability is not a Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed 181.7 million: 2017: high risk of significant misstatement or realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to by the subsidiary audit teams on all of those subsidiaries and 181.7 million subject to significant judgement.
continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the Financial Statements the going concern period.
considering the results of that work on those subsidiaries However, due to their materiality in the profits and net assets including assessing the liquidity of the Amounts due from context of the Parent Company Financial Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related assets and therefore the ability of the subsidiary to fund the subsidiary undertakings Statements, this is considered to be the to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as repayment of the receivable: and 575.5 million: 2017: area that had the greatest effect on our subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the 267.9 million overall Parent Company audit.
absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue comparing valuations: Comparing the carrying amount of 100% 100% 100% in operation.
the investment and debt due from group entities to the 2015 100% 2015 100% 2015 100% Groups market capitalisation to assess whether there are In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model, any indicators of impairment.
including the impact of Brexit, and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Companys financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period.
The risks that we considered most likely to adversely affect the Groups and our results Companys available financial resources over this period were: We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the Parent Companys investment in subsidiary and the Full scope for Group audit purpose 2016 the threat of a significant new entrant into the price comparison sector, coupled with changing consumer demands for the Groups recoverability of the group debtor to be acceptable.
Full scope for Group audit purpose 2015 services: and product availability and consumer appetite to spend significantly impacting trading volumes in the event of an economic downturn Increase in the level of amounts due from subsidiary undertakings in the current year, resulting in the Parent Companys debt due from following the departure of the UK from the EU Brexit.
group entities also being captured within the Parent Company key audit matter this year.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 82 83 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MONEYSUPERMARKET.
COM GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern continued corporate governance disclosures As these were risks that could potentially cast doubt on the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we We are required to report to you if: considered the sensitivities over the level of available financial resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking account of we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our Financial Statements audit and the reasonably possible but not realistic adverse effects that could arise from these risks individually and collectively and evaluated the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and achievability of the actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position should the risks materialise.
We also understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business considered less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as the impact of loss of trust events for customers and the new and model and strategy: or emerging regulatory developments concerning the UK regulators thematic investigations into the pricing of insurance and energy the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated products.
by us to the Audit Committee.
Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: We are required to report to you if the Statement on Corporate Governance does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in Note 2 to the Financial Statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and We have nothing to report in these respects.
Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 28 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the Financial Statements.
Our with the accounting records and returns: or opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our Financial Statements audit work, the We have nothing to report in these respects.
information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Respective responsibilities directors responsibilities strategic Report and directors Report As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 79, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the Financial Based solely on our work on the other information: Statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors Report: and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the Financial Statements: and going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. have no realistic alternative but to do so.
directors Remuneration Report Auditors responsibilities In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material Companies Act 2006. misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, Based on the knowledge we acquired during our Financial Statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the relation to: financial statements.
the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement that they have carried out a robust assessmentof the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the Directors Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our Financial Statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
com Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 84 85
