Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Morgan Advanced Materials plc Our response our procedures included: 1 Our opinion is unmodified 2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks We have audited the financial statements of Our tax expertise Morgan Advanced Materials plc the Company Use of our own tax specialists to assess the of material misstatement for the year ended 31 December 2018 which groups tax positions, its correspondence with Key audit matters are those matters that, in our comprise the Consolidated income statement, the relevant tax authorities, and to analyse and professional judgement, were of most significance Consolidated statement of comprehensive challenge the assumptions used to determine in the audit of the financial statements and income, Consolidated and Company balance the level of tax provisions: include the most significant assessed risks of sheets, Consolidated and Company statements material misstatement whether or not due to Challenging the assumptions using our own of changes in equity, Consolidated statement of fraud identified by us, including those which had expectations based on our knowledge of the cash flows and the related notes, including the the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: group, and experiences of the application of the accounting policies in note 1. the allocation of resources in the audit: and international and local legislation by the relevant directing the efforts of the engagement team.
In our opinion: authorities and courts: and We summarise below the key audit matters in the financial statements give a true and fair Assessing transparency decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving view of the state of the Groups and of the Assessing whether the Groups tax disclosures at our audit opinion above, together with our parent Companys affairs as at 31 December are appropriate and in accordance with relevant key audit procedures to address those matters 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year accounting standards.
and, as required for public interest entities, our then ended: results from those procedures.
These matters Our results the Group financial statements have been were addressed, and our results are based on properly prepared in accordance with We considered the level of tax provisioning to procedures undertaken, in the context of, and International Financial Reporting Standards be acceptable.
solely for the purpose of, our audit of the as adopted by the European Union: financial statements as a whole, and in forming Environmental provisions, legal and other the parent Company financial statements our opinion thereon, and consequently are provisions and contingent liabilities have been properly prepared in accordance incidental to that opinion, and we do not Refer to page 53 Audit Committee report, with UK accounting standards, including FRS provide a separate opinion on these matters.
101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Tax provisioning 26.0 million The risk the financial statements have been prepared 2017: 23.0 million Subjective judgement in accordance with the requirements of the The risk Potential exposures may arise from legal, Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Subjective estimate regulatory or environmental issues.
Whether Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Accounting for tax contingencies require the there is a liability is inherently uncertain.
directors to make judgements and estimates in one site, an investigation in respect of a known Basis for opinion relation to tax issues and exposures given that environmental issue is being conducted, and We conducted our audit in accordance with the group operates in a number of tax whether the liability can be reliably estimated International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer pricing is judgemental.
Our responsibilities and other international tax legislation and the Our response our procedures included: are described below.
We believe that the audit time taken for tax matters to be agreed with evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and the tax authorities.
The effect of these matters Enquiry of experts appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit is that, as part of our risk assessment, we We assessed the extent to which the Groups opinion is consistent with our report to the determined that the tax provisions have a high judgement as to whether a provision should be audit committee.
degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential recorded is a balanced assessment of the latest range of outcomes greater than our materiality available information and the accuracy and We were first appointed as auditor by the for the financial statements as a whole.
reliability of the sources of that information.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 18 We challenged the judgement made in respect financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We of the environmental contingency through have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, discussions with management and the and we remain independent of the Group in environmental experts engaged by the group.
accordance with, UK ethical requirements Assessing transparency including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied Assessing whether the Groups related to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit disclosures adequately disclose the potential services prohibited by that standard were liability of the Group.
Our results We found the judgement made, and the contingent liability disclosures made to be acceptable.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 79 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Morgan Advanced Materials plc Continued UK defined benefit pension obligation The remaining 20% of total group revenue, 3 Our application of materiality 25% of group profit before tax and 14% of total Group: 544.4 million: 2017: 593.7 and an overview of the scope group assets is represented by 78 of reporting million.
Parent Company: 178.2 million: of our audit components, none of which individually 2017: 194.6 million Materiality for the group financial statements represented more than 5% of any of total group Refer to pages 139 to 142 accounting policy as a whole was set at 4.1 million revenue, group profit before tax or total group note and pages 124 to 132 financial disclosures.
For these residual components, we reference to a benchmark of group profit performed an analysis at an aggregated group The risk before tax, normalised to exclude this years level to re-examine our assessment that there Subjective valuation specific adjusting items as disclosed in note 6, were no significant risks of material misstatement Small changes in the assumptions and estimates of which it represents 3.9% 2017: 3.9%.
used to value the UK pension obligation before deducting scheme assets would have a Materiality for the parent company financial The Group team instructed component auditors significant effect on the groups and parent statements as a whole was set at 3.8 million as to the significant areas to be covered, companys net pension deficit.
2017: 3.325 million, determined with including the relevant risks detailed above and reference to a benchmark of company total the information to be reported back.
The Group The effect of these matters is that, as part of our assets and chosen to be lower than materiality team approved the component materialities, risk assessment, we determined that the UK for the group financial statements as a whole.
It which ranged from 0.1 million to 1.6 million, pension obligation has a high degree of represents 0.3% 2017: 0.3% of total assets.
having regard to the mix of size and risk profile estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of of the Group across the components.
The work reasonable outcomes greater than our We agreed to report to the Audit Committee on 36 of the 37 components 2017: 35 of the 36 materiality for the financial statements as a any corrected or uncorrected identified components was performed by component whole, and possibly many times that amount.
misstatements exceeding 0.2 million, in auditors and the audit of the parent company, The financial statements notes 22 and 38 addition to other identified misstatements that was performed by the Group team.
For those disclose the sensitivity estimated by the warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
items excluded from group headline profit Company.
before tax, the component teams performed Of the groups 115 2017: 115 reporting Our response our procedures included: procedures on items relating to their components, we subjected 25 2017: 25 to full components.
The group team performed scope audits for group purposes and 12 2017: Assessing actuarys credentials procedures on the remaining excluded items.
11 to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
We critically assessed the competency, The latter were not individually financially objectivity and independence of the Schemes The Group team visited 1 2017: 1 component significant enough to require a full scope audit for actuary: location in the USA 2017: USA to assess the group purposes, but were included in the scope audit risk and strategy.
Telephone conference Benchmarking assumptions of our group reporting work in order to provide meetings were also held with this component Challenging, with the support of our own further coverage over the groups results.
auditor and all of the other locations that were actuarial specialists, the key assumptions applied, not physically visited.
At these visits and being the discount rate, inflation rate and meetings, the findings reported to the Group mortality life expectancy against externally team were discussed in more detail, and any derived data: and further work required by the Group team was Assessing transparency then performed by the component auditor.
Considering the adequacy of the groups and parent companys disclosures in respect of the The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages sensitivity of the deficit to these assumptions.
of the groups results: Our results Group Group We found the valuation of the pension obligation Number of Group profit total Components revenue before tax assets to be acceptable.
Audits for Group reporting purposes 25 54% 52% 65% Specific risk focused audit procedures 12 26% 23% 21% Total 37 80% 75% 86% Total 2017 36 79% 74% 82% 80 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements the Principal Risks disclosures describing 4 We have nothing to report on 5 We have nothing to report these risks and explaining how they are going concern on the other information in the being managed and mitigated: and Annual Report The Directors have prepared the financial the directors explanation in the Viability statements on the going concern basis as they The directors are responsible for the other Statement of how they have assessed the do not intend to liquidate the Company or the information presented in the Annual Report prospects of the Group, over what period Group or to cease their operations, and as they together with the financial statements.
Our they have done so and why they considered have concluded that the Companys and the opinion on the financial statements does not that period to be appropriate, and their Groups financial position means that this is cover the other information and, accordingly, we statement as to whether they have a realistic.
They have also concluded that there are do not express an audit opinion or, except as reasonable expectation that the Group will no material uncertainties that could have cast explicitly stated below, any form of assurance be able to continue in operation and meet significant doubt over their ability to continue as conclusion thereon.
its liabilities as they fall due over the period of a going concern for at least a year from the date their assessment, including any related Our responsibility is to read the other of approval of the financial statements the going disclosures drawing attention to any information and, in doing so, consider whether, concern period.
based on our financial statements audit work, Our responsibility is to conclude on the the information therein is materially misstated or Under the Listing Rules we are required to appropriateness of the Directors conclusions inconsistent with the financial statements or our review the Viability Statement.
We have nothing and, had there been a material uncertainty audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we to report in this respect.
related to going concern, to make reference to have not identified material misstatements in the that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot other information.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in predict all future events or conditions and as the context of only the knowledge acquired Strategic report and directors report subsequent events may result in outcomes that during our financial statements audit.
As we are inconsistent with judgements that were Based solely on our work on the other cannot predict all future events or conditions reasonable at the time they were made, the information: and as subsequent events may result in absence of reference to a material uncertainty in we have not identified material outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements this auditors report is not a guarantee that the misstatements in the strategic report and the that were reasonable at the time they were Group and the Company will continue in directors report: made, the absence of anything to report on operation.
these statements is not a guarantee as to the in our opinion the information given in those Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
reports for the financial year is consistent In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, with the financial statements: and we considered the inherent risks to the Corporate governance disclosures Companys business model, including the impact in our opinion those reports have been We are required to report to you if: of Brexit, and analysed how those risks might prepared in accordance with the Companies we have identified material inconsistencies affect the Companys financial resources or Act 2006. between the knowledge we acquired during ability to continue operations over the going our financial statements audit and the Directors remuneration report concern period.
We evaluated those risks and directors statement that they consider that concluded that they were not significant enough In our opinion the part of the Directors the annual report and financial statements to require us to perform additional audit Remuneration Report to be audited has been taken as a whole is fair, balanced and procedures.
properly prepared in accordance with the understandable and provides the information Companies Act 2006.
Based on this work, we are required to report necessary for shareholders to assess the to you if: Groups position and performance, business Disclosures of principal risks and longermodel and strategy: or we have anything material to add or draw term viability attention to in relation to the directors the section of the annual report describing Based on the knowledge we acquired during statement in Note 1 to the financial the work of the Audit Committee does not our financial statements audit, we have nothing statements on the use of the going concern appropriately address matters material to add or draw attention to in relation basis of accounting with no material communicated by us to the Audit to: uncertainties that may cast significant doubt Committee.
the directors confirmation within the over the Group and Companys use of that Viability statement on page 30 that they We are required to report to you if the basis for a period of at least twelve months have carried out a robust assessment of the Corporate Governance Statement does not from the date of approval of the financial principal risks facing the Group, including properly disclose a departure from the eleven statements: or those that would threaten its business provisions of the UK Corporate Governance the related statement under the Listing Rules model, future performance, solvency and Code specified by the Listing Rules for set out on page 30 is materially inconsistent liquidity: our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 81 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Morgan Advanced Materials plc Continued Irregularities ability to detect Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, 6 We have nothing to report on the there is an unavoidable risk that we may not We identified areas of laws and regulations that other matters on which we are have detected some material misstatements in could reasonably be expected to have a material required to report by exception the financial statements, even though we have effect on the financial statements from our Under the Companies Act 2006, we are properly planned and performed our audit in general commercial and sector experience, and required to report to you if, in our opinion: accordance with auditing standards.
For example, through discussion with the directors and other adequate accounting records have not been the further removed non-compliance with laws management as required by auditing standards, kept by the parent Company, or returns and regulations irregularities is from the events and discussed with the directors and other adequate for our audit have not been and transactions reflected in the financial management the policies and procedures received from branches not visited by us: or statements, the less likely the inherently limited regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
procedures required by auditing standards We communicated identified laws and the parent Company financial statements would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, regulations throughout our team and remained and the part of the Directors Remuneration there remained a higher risk of non-detection alert to any indications of non-compliance Report to be audited are not in agreement of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, throughout the audit.
This included with the accounting records and returns: or forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, communication from the group to component certain disclosures of directors or the override of internal controls.
We are not audit teams of relevant laws and regulations remuneration specified by law are not made: responsible for preventing non-compliance and identified at group level.
or cannot be expected to detect non-compliance The potential effect of these laws and regulations we have not received all the information and with all laws and regulations.
on the financial statements varies considerably.
explanations we require for our audit.
Firstly, the group is subject to laws and regulations 8 The purpose of our audit work We have nothing to report in these respects.
that directly affect the financial statements and to whom we owe our including financial reporting legislation including responsibilities 7 Respective responsibilities related companies legislation, distributable profits This report is made solely to the Companys Directors responsibilities legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed members, as a body, in accordance with As explained more fully in their statement set the extent of compliance with these laws and Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act out on page 78, the directors are responsible regulations as part of our procedures on the 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so for: the preparation of the financial statements related financial statement items.
that we might state to the Companys members including being satisfied that they give a true and Secondly, the group is subject to many other those matters we are required to state to them fair view: such internal control as they determine laws and regulations where the consequences of in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
is necessary to enable the preparation of non-compliance could have a material effect on To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do financial statements that are free from material amounts or disclosures in the financial not accept or assume responsibility to anyone misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: statements, for instance through the imposition other than the Company and the Companys assessing the Group and parent Companys of fines or litigation or the loss of the groups members, as a body, for our audit work, for this ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, license to operate.
We identified the following report, or for the opinions we have formed.
as applicable, matters related to going concern: areas as those most likely to have such an effect: and using the going concern basis of accounting environmental and trade compliance legislation unless they either intend to liquidate the Group Paul Sawdon Senior Statutory Auditor recognising the nature of the groups activities.
or the parent Company or to cease operations, for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Auditing standards limit the required audit or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Statutory Auditor procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the Auditors responsibilities Chartered Accountants directors and other management and inspection Our objectives are to obtain reasonable 15 Canada Square of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
assurance about whether the financial London Through these procedures, we identified actual statements as a whole are free from material E14 5GL or suspected non-compliance and considered misstatement, whether due to fraud or other the effect as part of our procedures on the 26 February 2019 irregularities see below, or error, and to issue related financial statement items.
These limited our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable procedures did not identify actual or suspected assurance is a high level of assurance, but does non-compliance that could have a material effect not guarantee that an audit conducted in on our audit.
accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
82 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial statements 84 Consolidated income statement 85 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 86 Consolidated balance sheet 87 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 88 Consolidated statement of cash flows 89 N otes to the consolidated financial statements 137 Company balance sheet 138 Company statement of changes in equity 139 Notes to the Company balance sheet 154 Group statistical information 155 Cautionary statement 156 Glossary of terms 157 Shareholder information Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 83
