Independent Auditors Report to the Members of NEXT plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: NEXT plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 27 January 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the 52 week period the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, Reduced disclosure framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets as at 27 January 2018, the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, and the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the 52 week period then ended: the accounting policies: and the Notes to the financial statements.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed in the Audit Committee Report, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 29 January 2017 to 27 January 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 36.0 million, based on approximately 5% of profit before tax.
Overall Parent Company materiality: 25.0 million, based on approximately 1% of total assets.
Materiality We conducted an audit of the complete financial information of one financially significant reporting unit as well as five other reporting units.
Five of these components were audited by the UK Group Engagement Team with the remaining component audited by a local component team located in Hong Kong.
Our scoping resulted in coverage of 95% of revenue, 97% of profit before tax and 98% of Audit scope total assets.
Recoverability of Online customer receivables Group.
Inventory being in excess of net realisable value Group.
Key audit Appropriateness of other provisions Group.
matters Valuation of financial instruments Group and Parent Company.
Accounting for defined benefit pension arrangements Group.
94 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Parent Company financial statements, including, but not limited to: the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, UK tax legislation and the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook with respect to credit related regulated activity.
Our tests included, but were not limited to: review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with the regulators, enquiries of management, enquiries of internal legal team and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We have performed controls testing on the origination and servicing of Recoverability of Online customer receivables the underlying Online customer receivables and related IT systems and Group have substantively tested the year end receivables balance to which Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 67, major sources of management have applied their provision assumptions.
estimation uncertainty within the Group Accounting Policies and Note 11 We assessed managements provision methodology against the for customer and other receivables.
requirements of IAS 39, utilising our financial services specialists.
An allowance of 138.7m is recognised against Online customer receivables We have tested historical default experience and recoveries and the of 1,255.6m.
The allowance against Online customer receivables involves stratification of the year end book by arrears position and customer judgement in determining the expected loss to NEXT where a loss event credit ratings, being the two key drivers to the provision calculated by has occurred by the year end date.
The significant judgements and management.
We have then independently re-calculated the provision, assumptions as applied when calculating the allowance are: based on managements assumptions.
how impairment triggers or loss events are identified: Independently, we have assessed the appropriateness of managements the default rate representing the likelihood of eventual default for assumptions based on NEXTs historical book experience and debt within each risk or ageing category of the gross receivable externally sourced evidence.
For those assumptions which involved balance: and most management judgement, we have performed sensitivity analysis, based on alternative assumptions.
the recovery rate on defaulted debt which has been passed onto debt collection agencies.
In relation to managements estimate of losses which have been incurred as at the year end date but have not yet emerged through The above judgements and assumptions are influenced by a mixture of missed payments, we have looked closely at the performance of the internally and externally sourced information.
book in the months leading up to the year end and subsequent and applied additional sensitivities.
Our testing included assessing whether the performing Online customer receivables are genuinely performing to ensure loans and advances are appropriately recorded.
We formed our own independent expectation of the allowance amount and concluded that the position taken by management was reasonable.
95 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of NEXT plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We evaluated the forecasted sell through and cash recovery rates Inventory being in excess of net realisable value by corroborating historical rates and then assessing managements Group judgement as to changes in customer behaviour macro-economic Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 68 and the major sources of conditions and the impact of this on forecasted rates.
estimation uncertainty within the Group Accounting Policies.
We have performed sensitivity analysis over key judgements taken by The valuation of inventory involves judgement in recording provisions management and assessed the impact of this sensitivity analysis on the for slow moving or obsolete inventory.
The significant judgements and provision value.
assumptions as applied when calculating the provisions are: We tested the integrity of the provision model to ensure that it the forecasted sell through rates of current and prior season was using the underlying data correctly and calculating provision inventory to determine inventory expected to be sold via clearance amounts accurately.
channels: and We reviewed inventory write-offs in the financial period to ensure they the forecasted cash recovery rates on inventory sold via are consistent with the total inventory provision held at year end.
We found that the provisions recorded were consistent with the In addition, provisions are recognised for shrinkage and faulty evidence obtained.
inventory which require an estimate of expected inventory losses and realisable amounts.
We evaluated revenue returns provisions by testing the expected Appropriateness of other provisions returns rate across the NEXT Retail and NEXT Online segments and Group the gross margin amounts as applied to the net provision.
We also Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 68, the major sources of understood the rights of customers to return goods, tested the amount estimation uncertainty within the Group Accounting Policies, Note 15 for of returns received in the period and post year end and then compared trade payables and other liabilities and Note 19 for provisions.
that to the return rate per the provision calculation.
Revenue returns provisions involve judgement in determining the expected We evaluated the property-related provisions by testing managements amount of returns to be received subsequent to the year end date.
assessment of the onerous elements of lease agreements and agreeing managements assumptions in relation to future property rectification Property-related provisions involve judgement in determining the extent costs to the spend incurred during the year.
We also evaluated loss to which certain leases are considered to be onerous and the expected making stores where impairments and provisions were not in place to value of rectification costs to be incurred on leased properties when they confirm that it was reasonable that no impairments or provisions had are vacated.
We found that the provisions recorded were consistent with the evidence obtained.
We have obtained third-party confirmations for all foreign exchange Valuation of financial instruments and interest rate derivatives and ensured these are consistent with the Group and Parent Company amounts recognised by NEXT.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 68 and Note 24 for We used valuation specialists to form an independent expectation financial instruments.
of the risk free valuation recognised by NEXT for a sample of foreign The nature of the Groups business means that it is exposed to fluctuations exchange and interest rate derivatives.
in foreign exchange rates on purchases and sales.
As such, the Group Our valuation specialists also estimated the impact of a credit risk takes out a number of foreign exchange derivatives which are valued on a adjustment arising from the counterpartys credit risk when NEXT holds marked to market basis and are therefore valued on an estimated basis with an asset and arising from NEXTs credit risk when holding a liability.
reference to market inputs rather than directly observable market values.
The Group also has in place interest rate derivatives on a similar basis.
We found the valuation of foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives to be consistent with the evidence obtained.
We used actuarial specialists to review the key actuarial assumptions Accounting for defined benefit pension across the Original Plan, the 2013 Plan and the SPA.
We found that the arrangements assumptions utilised by NEXT in the pension obligation valuation were Group reasonable and within our expected range.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report on page 68, the major sources of We reviewed the trust deeds for the 2013 Plan where a material net estimation uncertainty within the Group Accounting Policies and Note 18 surplus is recognised by NEXT.
From this review, we concur with for pension benefits.
managements assessment that under the requirements of IFRIC 14, NEXT should recognise the net surplus on the pension scheme.
The defined benefit pension scheme obligation of 830.3 million is calculated based on actuarial assumptions which are subject to significant We are satisfied that the valuation of the defined benefit pension management judgement and are also sensitive to small changes.
scheme obligations and the recognition of the net surplus is consistent In addition, there are restrictions under IAS 19 and IFRIC 14 as to when a net with the evidence obtained.
pension surplus should be recognised.
96 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of a number of reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses within its six segments with our audit work focused on the NEXT Retail, NEXT Online, NEXT Sourcing and Property Management segments.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we identified one reporting unit Retail which, in our view, required an audit of its complete financial information both due to its size and risk characteristics forms the majority of the NEXT Retail and NEXT Online segments.
In addition, full scope audits were performed over five other reporting units which contribute to the highlighted segments, though these are not considered to be individually significant either financially or due to risk characteristics.
The audit work performed at these six reporting units, together with additional procedures performed on centralised functions at the Group level, including audit procedures over the consolidation and intangible asset impairment testing, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
This scoping as described above results in the following coverage at the key metrics: 95% of revenue: 97% of profit before tax: and 98% of total assets.
Five of the six in-scope components were audited by the UK Group Engagement Team with the remaining component audited by a team in Hong Kong.
Throughout the audit cycle, senior members of the Group Engagement Team worked closely with the local component team including review of risk assessment and attendance via video conference at the local closing meeting with management.
Their workpapers were also subject to review by the Group Engagement Team.
The Parent Company is comprised of one reporting unit which was subject to a full scope audit for the purposes of the Group and Parent Company financial statements.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements 36.0 million.
Overall materiality 5% of profit before tax.
How we determined it Based on the benchmarks used in the The Parent Companys main operations are Rationale for benchmark applied Annual Report, profit before tax is the the holding and servicing of the Group's primary measure used by the shareholders corporate bonds and payment of dividends in assessing the performance of the to external equity shareholders.
It does not Group, and is a generally accepted trade and therefore total assets is considered auditing benchmark.
to be the most appropriate benchmark.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was 6.0 million to 33.0 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.8 million Group audit and 1.3 million Parent Company audit as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
97 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of NEXT plc Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing material to add or to draw in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the attention to.
However, because not all future directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting events or conditions can be predicted, in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material this statement is not a guarantee as to the uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going Groups and Parent Companys ability to concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to going concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the period ended 27 January 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 98 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 42 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 47 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 61, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 67 to 70 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 61, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
99 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of NEXT plc Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 18 May 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 27 January 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
This is therefore our first year of uninterrupted engagement.
Andrew Lyon Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors East Midlands 23 March 2018 100 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Group Company GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 102 Consolidated Income Statement 103 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 104 Consolidated Balance Sheet 105 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 106 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 107 Group Accounting Policies 113 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 101 Consolidated Income Statement 52 weeks to 52 weeks to 27 January 28 January 2018 2017 Notes m m Continuing operations Revenue 1, 2 4,055.5 4,097.3 Cost of sales 2,699.3 2,710.7 Gross profit 1,356.2 1,386.6 Distribution costs 363.9 345.1 Administrative expenses 232.3 214.9 Other losses gains 3 1.1 0.1 Trading profit 758.9 826.7 Share of results of associate and joint venture 1.0 1.0 Operating profit 3 759.9 827.7 Finance income 5 1.3 0.3 Finance costs 5 35.1 37.8 Profit before taxation 726.1 790.2 Taxation 6 134.3 154.9 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 591.8 635.3 Earnings Per Share Basic 8 416.7p 441.3p Diluted 8 415.7p 438.1p The Notes 1 to 30 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
102 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Group Company Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 52 weeks to 52 weeks to 27 January 28 January 2018 2017 Notes m m Profit for the year 591.8 635.3 Other comprehensive income and expenses: Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit pension scheme 18 43.4 2.4 Tax relating to items which will not be reclassified 6 7.4 0.2 Subtotal items that will not be reclassified 36.0 2.2 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 7.8 0.3 Foreign currency cash flow hedges: fair value movements 79.8 111.6 reclassified to the Income Statement 12.3 91.2 recognised in inventories 8.8 25.6 Tax relating to items which may be reclassified 6 14.2 2.0 Subtotal items that may be reclassified 61.3 2.9 Other comprehensive expense for the year 25.3 5.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 566.5 630.2 103 Consolidated Balance Sheet 27 January 28 January 2018 2017 Notes m m ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 9 558.9 578.6 Intangible assets 10 42.9 43.3 Associate, joint venture and other investment 2.1 2.1 Defined benefit pension asset 18 106.2 62.9 Other financial assets 12 48.1 57.3 Deferred tax assets 6 5.8 764.0 744.2 Current assets Inventories 490.1 451.1 Customer and other receivables 11 1,248.2 1,125.8 Other financial assets 12 5.7 34.0 Cash and short term deposits 13 53.5 49.7 1,797.5 1,660.6 Total assets 2,561.5 2,404.8 Current liabilities Bank loans and overdrafts 14 180.0 35.3 Trade payables and other liabilities 15 580.2 615.8 Other financial liabilities 16 59.3 3.2 Current tax liabilities 95.3 70.7 914.8 725.0 Non-current liabilities Corporate bonds 17 908.5 913.5 Provisions 19 10.4 6.7 Other financial liabilities 16 12.4 16.5 Other liabilities 15 232.8 226.9 Deferred tax liabilities 6 5.7 1,164.1 1,169.3 Total liabilities 2,078.9 1,894.3 NET ASSETS 482.6 510.5 TOTAL EQUITY 482.6 510.5 The financial statements were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 23 March 2018.
They were signed on its behalf by: Lord Wolfson of Aspley Guise Amanda James Chief Executive Group Finance Director 104 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Group Company Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Share Capital Foreign Other Share premium redemption ESOT Fair value currency reserves Retained Total capital account reserve reserve reserve translation Note 21 earnings equity m m m m m m m m m At 30 January 2016 15.1 0.9 14.8 208.7 29.4 4.8 1,443.8 1,908.9 311.8 Profit for the year 635.3 635.3 Other comprehensive expense income for the year 3.2 0.3 2.2 5.1 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 3.2 0.3 633.1 630.2 Share buybacks and commitments Note 20 0.4 0.4 187.6 187.6 ESOT share purchases and commitments Note 23 50.9 50.9 Shares issued by ESOT 44.2 13.7 30.5 Share option charge 13.1 13.1 Tax recognised directly in equity Note 6 10.8 10.8 Equity dividends Note 7 225.8 225.8 At 28 January 2017 14.7 0.9 15.2 215.4 26.2 4.5 1,443.8 2,117.2 510.5 Profit for the year 591.8 591.8 Other comprehensive expense income for the year 69.1 7.8 36.0 25.3 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 69.1 7.8 627.8 566.5 Share buybacks and commitments Note 20 0.2 0.2 106.1 106.1 ESOT share purchases and commitments Note 23 37.0 37.0 Shares issued by ESOT 20.8 10.5 10.3 Share option charge 14.1 14.1 Acquisition of minority interest in subsidiary 0.4 0.4 Tax recognised directly in equity Note 6 4.4 4.4 Equity dividends Note 7 479.7 479.7 At 27 January 2018 14.5 0.9 15.4 231.6 42.9 3.3 1,443.8 2,166.8 482.6 105 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 52 weeks to 52 weeks to 27 January 28 January 2018 2017 m m Cash flows from operating activities Operating profit 759.9 827.7 Depreciation, impairment and loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 122.6 116.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 0.4 0.4 Share option charge 14.1 13.1 Exchange movement 6.1 0.3 Increase decrease in inventories 39.0 35.3 Increase in customer and other receivables 126.0 73.7 Decrease in trade and other payables 16.9 49.7 Net pension contributions less income statement charge 19.3 Cash generated from operations 721.2 850.4 Corporation taxes paid 106.0 150.9 Net cash from operating activities 615.2 699.5 Cash flows from investing activities Additions to property, plant and equipment 104.2 160.8 Movement in capital accruals 8.6 3.8 Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment 112.8 157.0 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1.0 2.7 Outflow on the acquisition of minority interest in a subsidiary 0.4 Net cash from investing activities 112.2 154.3 Cash flows from financing activities Repurchase of own shares 105.1 187.6 Purchase of shares by ESOT 37.0 50.9 Disposal of shares by ESOT 11.3 29.9 Proceeds from repayment of unsecured bank loans 135.0 115.0 Issue of corporate bond 297.3 Repayment of corporate bond 212.6 Interest paid 33.4 31.5 Interest received 1.3 0.1 Dividends paid Note 7 479.7 314.1 Net cash from financing activities 507.6 584.4 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 4.6 39.2 Opening cash and cash equivalents 14.4 52.7 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 1.3 0.9 Closing cash and cash equivalents Note 28 8.5 14.4 106 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Group Company Group Accounting Policies General Information NEXT plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a UK based retailer which offers exciting, beautifully designed, wonderful quality clothing and homeware.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the UK.
The address of the registered office is Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT.
Basis of Preparation The financial statements of NEXT plc and the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments, pension assets and liabilities and sharebased payment liabilities which are measured at fair value.
As is common in the retail sector, the Group operates a weekly accounting calendar and this year the financial statements are for the 52 weeks to 27 January 2018 last year 52 weeks to 28 January 2017.
There have been no changes to our accounting policies this year and the principal policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of NEXT plc the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Associates and joint ventures are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the Groups share of the change in net assets of the associate or joint venture after the acquisition date.
Foreign Currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
The Group includes foreign entities whose functional currencies are not Sterling.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of those entities are translated at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date and income and expenses are translated at weighted average rates during the period.
Translation differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Transactions in currencies other than an entitys functional currency are recorded at the exchange rate on the transaction date, whilst assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are recognised in the Income Statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Revenue Revenue represents the fair value of amounts receivable for goods and services and is stated net of discounts, value added taxes and returns.
Sales of goods are recognised on delivery.
It is the Groups policy to sell its products to the retail customer with a right to return within 14 days.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for such returns at the time of sale.
The Group does not operate any loyalty programmes.
Revenue from the sale of gift cards is deferred until their redemption.
Online credit account interest is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate.
Where third-party goods are sold on a commission basis, only the commission receivable is included in statutory revenue.
To aid comparability, total sales are disclosed in the Strategic Report and in Note 1 of the financial statements.
Total sales includes the full customer sales value of commission based sales and interest income, excluding VAT.
Royalty income is received from franchisees and is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements.
Dividend Income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
107 Group Accounting Policies Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation is charged so as to write down the cost of assets to their estimated residual values over their remaining useful lives on a straight line basis.
Estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed at least annually.
Estimated useful lives are summarised as follows: Freehold and long leasehold property 50 years Plant and equipment 6 25 years Leasehold improvements the period of the lease, or useful life if shorter Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the acquisition cost over the Groups interest in the assets and liabilities recognised.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication of impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is allocated to the Cash generating unit CGU that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
The carrying value of the CGU containing the goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs of disposal.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
Other Intangible Assets Other intangible assets relate to the Lipsy brand names and trademarks obtained on acquisition which were initially recognised at fair value.
They are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives of 10 years.
Other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable.
Investments Investments in subsidiary companies Parent Company only and equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, subject to review for impairment.
Impairment The carrying values of non-financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any impairment loss arises, the asset value is adjusted to its estimated recoverable amount and the difference is recognised in the Income Statement.
Inventories Inventories stocks are valued at the lower of standard cost or net realisable value.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling prices less further costs to be incurred to disposal.
Where hedge accounting applies, an adjustment is applied such that the cost of stock reflects the hedged exchange rate.
Online Customer and Other Receivables Online customer receivables represent outstanding customer balances less any allowance for impairment which is based on objective evidence and relevant default experience by customer account category.
Other trade receivables are stated at invoice value less any allowance for impairment.
Cash and Cash Equivalents For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short term deposits, less bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand.
Short term deposits are those with an original maturity of three months or less.
Refer to Note 28 of the financial statements.
108 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Group Company Corporate Bonds and Bank Borrowings Corporate bonds and bank borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently measured at amortised cost and adjusted where hedge accounting applies see interest rate derivatives on page 110.
Accrued interest is included within other creditors and accruals.
Pension Arrangements The Group provides pension benefits which include both defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements.
Pension assets are held in separate trustee administered funds and the Group also provides other, unfunded, pension benefits to certain plan members.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit and unfunded arrangements are determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date by external actuaries.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
A net pension asset is only recognised to the extent that it is expected to be recoverable in the future through a cash refund or a reduction in future payments.
The current service cost of the defined benefit plan is recognised in the Income Statement as an employee benefit expense.
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan assets.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The cost of defined contribution schemes is recognised in the Income Statement as incurred.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Share-based Payment The fair value of employee share options is calculated when they are granted using a Black-Scholes model and the fair value of equitysettled LTIP awards is calculated at grant using a Monte Carlo model.
The resulting cost is charged in the Income Statement over the vesting period of the option or award, and is regularly reviewed and adjusted for the expected and actual number of options or awards vesting.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself, and the charge is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
For cash-settled awards, the fair value of the liability is determined at each balance sheet date and the cost is recognised in the Income Statement over the vesting period.
Taxation Taxation, comprised of current and deferred tax, is charged or credited to the Income Statement unless it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In such cases, the related tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be paid, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method and is calculated using rates of taxation enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date which are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of investments in subsidiaries and associates where the reversal of any taxable temporary differences can be controlled and are unlikely to reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Tax provisions are recognised when there is a potential exposure under changes to international tax legislation.
Management uses professional advisers and in-house tax experts to determine the amounts to be provided.
109 Group Accounting Policies Other Financial Assets and Liabilities: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting Derivative financial instruments derivatives are used to manage risks arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to the purchase of overseas sourced products and changes in interest rates relating to the Groups debt.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes.
Foreign currency and interest rate derivatives are stated at their fair value, being the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate them at the balance sheet date based on prevailing foreign currency and interest rates.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: a. Hedges of fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : or b. Hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Interest rate derivatives fair value hedges The Group uses interest rate derivatives to hedge part of the interest rate risk associated with the Companys corporate bonds.
The carrying values of the relevant bonds are adjusted only for changes in fair value attributable to the interest rate risk being hedged.
The adjustment is recognised in the Income Statement and is offset by movements in the fair value of the derivatives.
Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives which are ineffective or do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting in IAS 39 are recognised in the Income Statement.
Foreign currency derivatives cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives which are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised in other comprehensive income and in the fair value reserve, and subsequently transferred to the carrying amount of the hedged item or the Income Statement.
Realised gains or losses on cash flow hedges are therefore recognised in the Income Statement in the same period as the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument previously recognised in equity is retained in equity until the hedged transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is then transferred to the Income Statement.
Changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives which are ineffective or do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting in IAS 39 are recognised in the Income Statement.
Share Buybacks The Group has regularly returned surplus cash to shareholders through share buybacks.
Shares purchased for cancellation are deducted from retained earnings at the total consideration paid or payable.
The Company also uses contingent share purchase contracts and irrevocable closed period buyback programmes: the obligation to purchase shares is recognised in full at the inception of the contract, even when that obligation is conditional on the share price.
Any subsequent reduction in the obligation caused by the expiry or termination of a contract is credited back to equity at that time.
Shares Held by ESOT The NEXT Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT provides for the issue of shares to Group employees, principally under share option schemes.
Shares in the Company held by the ESOT are included in the Balance Sheet at cost, including any directly attributable incremental costs, as a deduction from equity.
Provisions A provision is recognised where the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
110 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Group Company Leasing Commitments Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Contingent rentals payable based on store revenues are accrued in line with the related sales.
Premiums payable, rent free periods, lease incentives and capital contributions receivable on entering an operating lease are released to the Income Statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Major Sources of Estimation Uncertainty The preparation of the financial statements requires estimations and assumptions to be made that affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from expectation.
Significant areas of estimation uncertainty for the Group include: Recoverable amount of Online customer receivables The provision for potentially irrecoverable debtors refer to Note 11 is calculated using a combination of internally and externally sourced information, including historical default and collection rates and other credit data.
The basis for identifying when debtors are potentially impaired has been applied consistently.
A 1% movement in default rate would move the provision by c2.5m.
A 1% movement in the collections rate would change the provision balance by c0.8m.
Net realisable value of inventories The selling prices of inventory are estimated to determine the net realisable value of inventory 490.1m at 27 January 2018.
Historical sales patterns and post year end trading performance are used to determine these.
A 2% change in the volume of inventories going to clearance would impact the net realisable value by c4m.
A 2% change in the level of markdown applied to the selling price would impact the value of inventories going to clearance by c8m.
Defined benefit pension valuation The assumptions applied in determining the defined benefit pension obligation Note 18, are particularly sensitive to small changes in assumptions.
Advice is taken from a qualified actuary to determine appropriate assumptions at each balance sheet date.
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the complexity of the valuation, the underlying assumptions and the long term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.
A sensitivity analysis is shown in Note 18.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, management considers the interest rates of high quality UK corporate bonds, with extrapolated maturities corresponding to the expected duration of the obligation.
The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality tables.
Other Other areas of estimation and judgement include product returns rates and property provisions.
Product returns rates are based on historical returns rate patterns and are recorded so as to allocate them to the same period in which the original revenue is recorded.
Sensitivities to the assumptions for product returns and property provisions are not expected to result in a material change in the carrying amount.
These provisions are reviewed regularly and updated to reflect managements latest best estimates.
New Accounting Standards Various new or revised accounting standards have been issued which are not yet effective.
The key ones affecting the Group are described below.
The Group does not intend to early adopt these standards.
a. IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers will be effective for the year ending January 2019 onwards, and will not impact the Groups profit.
The majority of the Groups sales are for standalone products made direct to customers at standard prices either in-store or online.
Estimates are already made of anticipated returns and sales awaiting delivery to the customer.
Certain income streams totalling around 30m currently netted off costs, will be recognised as statutory revenue on transition to IFRS 15.
The alternative performance measure total sales will not be adjusted for the impact of IFRS 15. b. IFRS 9 Financial instruments will be effective for the year ending January 2019 onwards.
IFRS 9 introduces: new requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities: a new model for recognising provisions based on expected credit losses: and simplified hedge accounting by aligning hedge accounting more closely with an entitys risk management methodology.
The Group has completed an assessment of the impact of IFRS 9 and it is expected that adoption will not have a material impact on Consolidated Income Statement or Consolidated Balance Sheet.
As a retailer, NEXT is not required to provide against undrawn credit under the expected credit loss model of Online customer receivables.
111 Group Accounting Policies New Accounting Standards continued c. IFRS 16 Leases will be effective for the year ending January 2020.
The Group has a large portfolio of leased properties and other equipment, including stores and warehouses: the minimum lease commitment on these at the financial year end is disclosed in Note 29.
On the adoption of IFRS 16, lease agreements will give rise to both a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for future lease payables.
The right-of-use asset will be depreciated on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Interest will be recognised on the lease liability, resulting in a higher interest expense in the earlier years of the lease term.
The total expense recognised in the Income Statement over the life of the lease will be unaffected by the new standard.
However, IFRS 16 will result in the timing of lease expense recognition being accelerated for leases which would be currently accounted for as operating leases.
There will be no impact on cash flows, although the presentation of the Cash Flow Statement will change significantly, with an increase in cash flows from operating activities being offset by an increase in cash flows from financing activities.
The Group has established a working group to ensure we take all necessary steps to comply with the requirements of IFRS 16.
Significant work has been completed to date, including collection of relevant data, changes to IT systems and processes and the determination of relevant accounting policies.
The Group intends to apply the fully retrospective approach on transition and will restate prior year comparatives.
Given the complexities of IFRS 16 and the material sensitivity to key assumptions, such as discount rates, it is not yet practicable to fully quantify the effect of IFRS 16 on the financial statements of the Group.
