Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Independent Auditors Report To the Members of NMC Health Plc Opinion In our opinion: NMC Health plcs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of NMC Health plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the Statement of cash flows for the year then ended year then ended Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year Related notes 1 to 15 to the financial statements including then ended a summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 44 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 22 to 25 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 86 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 84 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on pages 84 to 86 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of NMC Health Plc Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Revenue recognition Accounting for acquisitions Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 14 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 10 components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 97% of Profit before tax, 90% of Revenue and 94% of Total assets, all before consolidation adjustments.
Materiality Overall group materiality of US$13.2mn which represents 5% of 2018 Profit before tax.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
88 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Risk Our response to the risk Revenue recognition We tested key controls over revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition.
Where we relied on the controls tested by internal audit Group Revenue we satisfied ourselves about their objectivity, independence and professional 2018: US$2,057.3mn skills.
We discussed the audit plan and audit program with the internal 2017: US$1,603.4mn auditors, reviewed their testing of controls and re-performed a sample of their work.
We also independently tested an additional sample.
Refer to the Financial summary and highlights Report page 12 : Accounting policies page 111 : We reviewed a sample of new distribution agreements entered into during and Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial the year and revenue sharing contracts with doctors in newly acquired Statements page 127. businesses to verify that the Groups determination that they are acting in a capacity of a principal rather than an agent is appropriate considering The Group has a number of revenue streams the balance of risk and rewards.
relating to its Healthcare and Distribution segments including clinic and hospital revenues, over the We obtained assurance over the recognition of revenue through audit counter sales, pharmacy sales and sales of goods.
work on accounts receivable specifically by testing the rejection rates based on historical experience and have verified that receivable balances The following areas of revenue recognition as at year end are presented at their recoverable amount and revenues are recognised as significant risks: adjusted accordingly.
Management may incorrectly determine whether the Group is acting as principal or agent We performed substantive audit procedures including testing a sample in certain arrangements such as distribution of transactions by tracing invoices back to original documentation or agreements with key suppliers and revenue corroborated to resubmissions made by the company.
Revenue recognition is impacted as We reviewed a sample of material supplier agreements and accounting insurance providers may reject claims for the supplier income including fees and discounts by reviewing the made which requires management to agreements, verifying the data of conditions for the discounts being estimate the percentage of rejections met and vouched the amounts recognised to invoices and cash receipts.
For customer volume discounts we ensured the completeness and The following areas of revenue recognition accuracy of the provision amount and accounting through post year are audit focus areas however not seen end credit testing, by reviewing the customer agreements and verifying as significant risks: the conditions for discounts.
Supplier agreements are often complex which could lead to inaccurate accounting or We performed cut off testing for a sample of revenue transactions around conditions for recognition of the supplier income, the period end, to check that they were recognised in the appropriate period including fees and discounts, not being met.
with particular focus on inpatient revenues and distribution sales and Volume of transactions increases risk of assessing any reversals of revenues after year end.
For IVF revenues improper revenue recognition, particularly we tested managements estimate as to cut off of completed IVF phases with regards to cut-off at period end dates.
and verified revenues are recognised proportionally.
The overall risk of revenue recognition has We performed analytical review procedures including developments in patient remained stable in the current year.
numbers per facility and corroborated these with the revenue movement.
We performed other audit procedures specifically designed to address the risk of management override of controls including journal entry testing, applying particular focus to manual journals and to the timing of revenue transactions.
We checked the Groups consistency and adherence to their revenue recognition policies including the impact of new reporting standard IFRS 15 and we agreed that these policies are in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We assessed the disclosures against the requirements of IFRS 15.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk areas in 24 locations, which covered 90% of the groups revenue.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of NMC Health Plc Key audit matters continued Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Based on the audit procedures performed, we are satisfied that revenue recognition is appropriate and that the Group has appropriately adhered to their revenue recognition policies, including the determination of whether the Group is acting as agent rather than as principal.
We audited the impact of the new reporting standard IFRS 15 on the Groups accounting policies and report that the new reporting standard has an immaterial impact on the Groups financial results.
Accounting for acquisitions We obtained and reviewed the sale and purchase agreements and other The Group recognised goodwill of US$392.2mn relevant documentation to understand the terms and conditions of the 2017: US$471.6mn and intangible assets acquisitions which took place in the year.
of US$94.8mn 2017: US$17.3mn in respect of the acquisitions made in the current year.
We assessed the judgements applied in determining whether acquisitions represented an acquisition of an asset or a business combination.
This Of the 18 acquisitions in the year, 7 were involved assessing whether or not the entities and the assets acquired included as full or specific audit scope based constitute the carrying on of a business.
on the materiality and related risks.
Where transactions met the definition of a business combination we audited The following are the key audit risks: the management assessment of the assets and liabilities acquired and the The contractual arrangements can be complex allocation of the purchase consideration to these and the resultant goodwill and subject to different legal environments.
by performing the following procedures: This requires management to apply judgement We reviewed the due diligence reports.
in determining whether a transaction represents The audit team with the assistance of the valuation experts, validated an acquisition of an asset or a business the appropriateness of the purchase price allocation, assessed the combination in accordance with IFRS 3. appropriateness of the recognition of intangible assets, and challenged Estimates and judgements made in the the consideration of the valuation inputs and the valuation methodology.
recognition of an acquisition as a business We verified that the consideration transferred, and where relevant combination may be inappropriate and the contingent consideration, was appropriately calculated in accordance valuation of the assets and liabilities acquired with contractual arrangements.
We assessed whether the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable Acquisitions may be recognised before the returns and has the ability to affect those returns through its power Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable over the investee as at the date upon which the acquisitions were returns from its involvement with the investee recognised including applicable regulatory approvals.
This includes and has the ability to affect those returns also an assessment of acquisitions completed early in the following through its power over the investee.
We verified the appropriateness of the consolidation adjustments in respect of accounting for these transactions including accounting for The overall risk has remained stable in the acquisitions related costs.
We reviewed the predecessor auditor working papers for the entities acquired and in group scope.
We verified that disclosure in the financial statements are in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Based on the audit procedures we have performed, we concur with the Groups accounting for all acquisitions above our performance materiality.
We have reviewed the business combinations disclosures in respect of the acquisitions which completed in 2018 and we believe that these are appropriate and in compliance with the requirements of IFRS 3 Business combinations.
In the prior year, our auditors report included the same Key Audit Matters as noted above.
90 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 41 reporting components of the Group, we selected 21 components covering entities within United Arab Emirates UAE, Spain, Denmark, Brazil, Italy, Saudi Arabia and Oman, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 24 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 14 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 10 components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for the following percentages of the Group financial statements before consolidation adjustments: Aggregated Profit before tax 97% 2017: 99% Aggregated Revenue 90% 2017: 95% Aggregated Total assets 95% 2017: 98% The components in scope contributed the following percentages of the Group financial statements before consolidation adjustments: Full scope components: 92% 2017: 96% of the aggregated Profit before tax, 74% 2017: 92% of the aggregated Revenue and 87% 2017: 97% of the aggregated Total assets.
Specific scope component: 5% 2017: 3% of the aggregated Profit before tax, 16% 2017: 3% of the aggregated Revenue and 8% 2017: 1% of the aggregated Total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts.
Specific scope component testing is primarily focused on the significant risk in relation to revenue recognition however it also included procedures on property and equipment balances and accounts receivables among others.
The remaining 31 components, which are primarily located in the UAE, together represent 3% of the Groups aggregated Profit before tax.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Changes from the prior year During the year the Group acquired 18 entities out of which CosmeSurge UAE, Chronic Care KSA, Al Salam KSA, Emirates Medical Center Oman, Aspen Healthcare UK, 3 entities, Eugin Sweden AB and Pro-Criar BRA were included in the group audit scope.
The other 11 acquired entities were not in scope this year based on their respective size and risk characteristics including due to being acquired later in the reporting period and as such limiting the impact on 2018 consolidation results for the year.
Due to expansion of the group both through organic growth and acquisition we have revisited group scoping of entities from prior year considering their size, respective risks and result of prior year audits and made the following changes this year: four full scope components in the prior year are reduced to specific scope, two specific scope components in the prior year were not in scope this year.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of NMC Health Plc Changes from the prior year continued Integrated team structure and Involvement with component teams The overall audit strategy is determined by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is based in the UK.
However, since Group management and the majority of the operations reside in the UAE, the Group audit team includes members from both the UK and the UAE.
The Group audit team members from the UAE are also members of selected components teams.
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 14 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on four of these directly by the primary audit team and audit procedures on the remaining 10 entities by the component audit teams.
For these components, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
Given that the Group operates predominantly in the UAE, the Senior Statutory Auditor with his UK based audit team members travelled to the UAE during three periods to work in an integrated manner with the EY UAE audit team members as part of the half year review, interim and yearend audit.
This involved defining audit strategy for significant accounts, discussing the approach with management, monitoring the execution and reviewing the underlying work.
During the current year the Primary team also visited Spain, where the Luarmia S. L. group of companies are based Luarmia Group is full scope component.
These visits involved discussing the results of the audit of component team, meeting with local management, attending the closing meetings and reviewing key audit working papers on risk areas.
Primary team also met management of Aspen Healthcare 2018 acquisition, specific scope component to discuss the business and overall audit approach in addition to reviewing key audit working papers on risk areas.
In addition, in the UAE, the Primary team met with the KSA audit team responsible for the audit of two newly acquired KSA components and discussed the results of the interim audit work.
We also reviewed the underlying working papers on risk areas for Al Salam specific scope component.
The primary team also interacted with all individual component teams in group scope during the interim audit and year-end audit discussing audit progress, audit findings and other key observations.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level by the Group audit team, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be US$13.2mn 2017: US$10.69mn, which is 5% 2017: 5% of the Group consolidated Profit before tax.
We believe that Profit before tax is one of the key performance indicators of the business and a focus of users of the financial statements.
The increase in materiality from the prior year reflects the impact of the newly acquired entities on the Groups profit and organic growth of the legacy entities.
Compared to prior year, Profit before tax was not adjusted for the effect of non-recurring items.
These related to the cost in respect of the acquisitions which, given the continued activities in recent years are no longer deemed as non-recurring.
Had we excluded the one-off costs in respect of acquisitions in amount of US$5.0mn, our materiality would have been US$12.9mn considering actual year end Profit before tax.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be US$7.16mn 2017: US$5.52mn, which is 1% 2017: 1% of Equity.
92 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% 2017: 50% of our planning materiality, namely US$6.6mn 2017: US$5.34mn.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our expectation of potential misstatements, our risk assessment and changes in the organisation, particularly given the acquisitions which took place during the year.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was US$1.32mn to US$3.24mn 2017: US$ 1.07mn to US$ 2.67mn.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$0.66mn 2017: US$0.53mn, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 36 to 81 including Shareholder Summary information report, Groups Strategic report and Groups Governance report including Directors report, Remuneration report and Corporate Governance Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We also report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 84 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 48 to 51 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 42 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued To the Members of NMC Health Plc Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 84, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud including management override, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group.
The group is subject to regulations applicable and specific to their individual markets.
The group operates two different segments i. e. Healthcare and Distribution.
The Healthcare division is regulated by governmental and non-governmental organisations which are responsible for monitoring the performance and clinical procedures against its regulations including renewal of operating licences.
The distribution division is present only in the UAE and is, for much of their product range, controlled through the UAE Ministry of Health dealing with pricing and compliance with the regulation of disposal of pharmaceuticals.
The Board is responsible for setting out the Groups strategic risks and the mitigating actions and controls taken against those risks.
We have obtained and reviewed the Risk register which includes the risk of failure to comply with multi regulatory and standards bodies requirements and risk of inadequate data security measures.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved making inquiries with the Group Board members including Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer.
In addition we held inquiry with the groups legal team and obtained independent legal confirmation letters from external legal advisors for each entity country in scope.
We have reviewed minutes of Board meetings and Audit Committee meetings and have tested legal expenses to confirm completeness of known litigations and claims.
In areas where management relies on controls procedures performed by Internal audit, we met with the Internal audit and discussed the Audit plan and or reviewed the results report.
94 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Strategic Financial Other Overview Report Governance Statements Information We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, by considering the controls that the Group has established to address risks identified by the entity, including how fraud might occur either through individual transaction, transactions with related parties or transactions with a high degree of management judgment or estimate.
We note that revenues from both segments consist of large volume low value transactions and a low degree of judgment or estimate with the exception of rejection rates.
Our procedures included performing journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals at individual company level indicating larger one off or unusual transactions especially those impacting revenues, performing analytical review of disaggregated financial information i. e. revenue movements over the period and location, obtaining a list of related parties and reviewing minutes of various meetings to confirm the completeness of this list.
We have in addition maintained our professional scepticism during the substantive test of transactions e. g. by including in our testing those with new customers and suppliers or those where management in their accounting and valuation applied significant estimates and judgments.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were re-appointed by the company at the Annual General Meeting on 28 June 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 7 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2012 to 31 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain independent of the group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
VICTOR VEGER SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 06 March 2019 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95
