OUR GROUP FINANCIALS 142 Independent Auditors Report 149 Consolidated Income Statement 150 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 151 Consolidated Balance Sheet 152 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 153 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 154 Notes to the Financial Statements Ocado AR2018 Financials.
indd 141 05-Feb-19 2:08:25 AM 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 Our Financials 142 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ocado Group plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements of Ocado Group plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 2 December 2018 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated and parent company statement of cash flows: and the related notes 1 to 5.5 to the consolidated financial statements and notes 1 to 5.2 to the parent company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year and prior year were: Accounting for Solutions contracts Capitalised project costs Key audit matters have been updated for the current year where required.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 6.6 million which was determined on the basis of revenue.
Scoping The scope of our group audit includes all significant trading companies in the UK, whose results taken together account for over 95% of the groups revenue, profit after tax and net assets.
All entities are managed from one central location in the UK and all audit work is completed by the group audit team.
We performed analytical procedures over the remaining trading entities, the groups captive insurance company in Malta and development operations in Poland, Bulgaria and Spain.
Significant changes in our approach In the prior year accounting for commercial income arrangements was included as a key audit matter.
This has not been included in the current year as there is a consistent approach to the treatment of the commercial income year on year.
There have been no significant changes in our approach in the period to 2 December 2018 compared to the prior period.
Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 December 2018 www.
indd 142 05-Feb-19 2:08:25 AM 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 Our Financials 143 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in note 1.2 to the financial statements about whether they We confirm that we have nothing considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their material to report, add or draw identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a attention to in respect of these period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the company, its business model and related risks, including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment and evaluating the directors plans for future actions in relation to the going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the material to report, add or draw directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required attention to in respect of these to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: matters.
the disclosures on pages 46 to 48 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 45 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 49 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Accounting for Solutions contracts Key audit matter description A number of Solutions contracts were signed with customers during the year.
The accounting for Ocado Solutions contracts, which generally have a range of deliverables and therefore possible performance obligations, is complex and requires judgement, particularly as to the timing of revenue recognition.
There is a potential risk of misstatement due to fraud or error if an inappropriate approach to revenue recognition is taken.
The group has elected to adopt IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 a year earlier than required by the accounting standard.
Payments received in respect of these contracts during the year amounted to 200.1m 2017: 146.1m.
The group recognised revenue of 123.0m 2017: 108.4m in the Income Statement.
The key audit matter for our audit is whether management has applied the principles of IFRS15 appropriately to each of the material Solutions contracts and therefore recognised the appropriate amount of revenue in the year.
In particular our work has focused on the identification of, and value allocated to, distinct performance obligations and the profile and period over which revenue is recognised.
Refer to pages 77 and 78 Audit Committee report, note 1.5 to the consolidated financial statements on the impact of adopting the new standard including the restatement of the prior year comparative, note 2.2 to the consolidated financial statements on segmental reporting, and note 1 on the related Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty.
Stock Code: OCDO Annual Report and Accounts Ocado Group plc Ocado AR2018 Financials.
indd 143 05-Feb-19 2:08:25 AM 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 Our Financials 144 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ocado Group plc Accounting for Solutions contracts How the scope of our audit Our audit procedures included: responded to the key audit matter assessing the design and implementation of managements controls over the accounting for Solutions contracts including the impact of transition to IFRS 15: meeting with senior management involved with the negotiation of the contracts, in particular the CEO of Ocado Solutions and the Deputy Legal Counsel to understand the substance of the agreements: engaging with our internal specialists on the appropriate interpretation of the technical requirements in order to assess whether the accounting treatment applied by management for each contract is in line with IFRS 15: reviewing each contract to understand the substance of the arrangement and to identify the potential accounting matters: assessing the various deliverables inherent in each contract such as: exclusivity arrangements: set-up services: provision of software: and design and build of customer fulfilment centres CFC to ascertain whether they constitute potential separate performance obligations: assessing the fees that the Group will receive over the course of the contract in order to ascertain the appropriate amount of revenue that should be allocated to each performance obligation and the time period and profile over which that revenue should be recognised through consideration of the customer life: obtaining evidence to support transactions such as invoices for services, cash receipts, or proof of delivery for software solutions: and consideration of the complex disclosure requirements of IFRS 15 and obtaining evidence to support the amounts disclosed.
Key observations We are satisfied that revenue from the Ocado Solutions contracts has been recognised appropriately in line with the contractual agreements and IFRS 15.
Capitalised project costs Key audit matter description The Group has invested significantly in developing the software and associated tangible assets it uses to operate the retail business and to provide the end-to-end Ocado Solutions Platform OSP to Solutions partners.
During the year the group invested 212.2m 2017: 160.1m in capital expenditure.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment at the year end is 545.8m 2017: 453.7m and for intangible assets is 143.7m 2017: 112.4m.
Amounts capitalised included a internal development costs of 68.7m 2017: 54.5m.
We identified this as a key audit matter due to the significant amounts invested and the level of judgement involved, for example in considering whether existing assets are potentially impaired due to technology being superseded and also the appropriateness of the useful economic life assigned to project assets.
As assessment of useful life or potential impairment of assets requires considerable judgement and has an impact on the amounts recorded as an expense in the Income Statement, there is a potential risk of misstatement due to fraud or error.
In the current year we focused our audit procedures on the risk of impairment, given the significant sums being invested and the fast pace of development.
New technology could supersede previously capitalised projects or inappropriate amortisation rates could be used.
Refer to page 78 Audit Committee statement, notes 3.1 and 3.2 to the financial statements and the disclosures in respect of Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty in note 1.
indd 144 05-Feb-19 2:08:25 AM 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 Our Financials 145 Capitalised project costs How the scope of our audit Our audit procedures included: responded to the key audit matter assessing the design and implementation of managements controls over their process for assessing impairment, for example a half-yearly review of project status involving project managers and finance: for the most significant projects, meeting with project managers responsible to inform our assessment of the feasibility and economic benefits of the projects, and to identify any indicators of impairment: reviewing a sample of existing projects for indicators of impairment, including reviewing the profile of all project additions to assess whether abandoned or put on hold: reviewing a sample of new projects to assess if they supersede previously capitalised assets: reviewing amounts capitalised for projects that are still in progress and as a result are not being depreciated or amortised: this included reviewing the ageing of costs capitalised, as well as considering whether the classification is appropriate given our understanding of the projects and their likely future benefit: benchmarking the useful economic lives applied by management against comparators: and performing a series of analytic tests on the costs capitalised to identify items that in our judgement are unusual, and obtaining explanations and supporting evidence from management, for example challenging projects with limited or negative costs capitalised in the period, or project descriptions that could indicate impairment of assets already capitalised.
Key observations Based on the audit procedures performed we are satisfied that the amounts capitalised are appropriate.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 6.6 million 2017: 6.0 million 6.5 million 2017: 5.6 million Basis for determining materiality We determined materiality to be 6.6 million based Parent company materiality equates to 1% 2017: 1% on revenue.
As a percentage, materiality is 0.4% of of net assets.
Rationale for the benchmark applied This has been based on professional judgement and The parent company does not generate significant the requirement of auditing standards.
We believe revenues but instead incurs costs and as such net revenue to be the financial measure most relevant assets are an appropriate base to use to determine to users of the financial statements given Ocados materiality.
performance, in particular its levels of profitability and the significant investment in technology.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment of the groups control environment and the history of error we also set performance materiality for the group at 4.6 million 2017: 4.2 million which represents 70% 2017: 70% of materiality.
We use performance materiality to determine the extent of our testing: it is lower than planning materiality to reflect our assessment of the risk of errors remaining undetected by our sample testing or uncorrected in the financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 330,000 2017: 300,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
indd 145 05-Feb-19 2:08:25 AM 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 26237 5 February 2019 2:06 am Proof 1 Our Financials 146 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Ocado Group plc An overview of the scope of our audit This was our second year as auditor of Ocado and as such our audit approach included furthering our understanding of the business, the key processes and the controls supporting the groups transactions to assess the risks of material misstatement for each account balance and disclosure item.
In line with our audit plan we relied on the key business and IT controls over the following business processes: capitalisation of tangible and intangible assets: inventory: supplier income: operating expenses: and payroll.
We also used IT specialists to test the general IT controls over the key financial reporting systems Oracle and the Warehouse Management Systems.
We visited three of the four operating Customer Fulfilment Centres CFCs, the two General Merchandise Distribution Centres GMDCs and the Fabled store.
The Audit Partner met members of the Audit Committee, the Chairman, and Executive Directors.
In addition as part of understanding the business and performing our audit procedures we met with senior management across the group.
Taken together, this informed our group audit scope.
The scope of our group audit includes all significant trading companies in the UK, including the joint venture with Wm Morrisons Supermarket Plc.
The results for these entities account for over 95% 2017: 97% of the groups revenue, profit after tax and net assets.
For the entities not subject to detailed audit work, the groups captive insurance company in Malta and the development operations in Bulgaria, Poland and Spain, we tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion there were no material misstatements in the aggregated financial information.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to report in respect of included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
