Independent auditors report to the members of On the Beach Group plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We were first appointed as auditor by the directors on 28 September 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted We have audited the financial statements of On the engagement is for the 4 financial years ended 30 Beach Group Plc the Company for the year September 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical ended 30 September 2018 which com prise the responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the consolidated incom e statem ent and statem ent of Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements comprehensive income, consolidated balance including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed sheet, consolidated statem ent of cash flows, public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited consolidated statement of changes in equity, by that standard were provided.
com pany balance sheet, com pany statem ent of changes in equity and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 2.
Overview In our opinion: Materiality: Group financial 1.3m 2017: 1.1m statem ents as a whole the financial statements give a true and fair 5% 2017: 5% of view of the state of the Groups and of the Normalised Group profit parent Com panys affairs as at 30 September before tax 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Coverage 100% 2017:100% of Group profit before tax the Group financial statem ents have been properly prepared in accordance with Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: Event driven New: Valuation of brand, the parent Company financial statements have custom er relationships been properly prepared in accordance with UK agents and customer accounting standards, including FRS 102 The relationships individuals Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the arising on the Classic UK and Republic of Ireland: and Collection acquisition the financial statements have been prepared in Recurring risks Parent: Valuation of accordance with the requirements of the Investments in subsidiaries Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion Following Monarch Airline entering administration on 2 October 2017, two event driven risks were noted in our We conducted our audit in accordance with report last year: Provision for Monarch Airlines and International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs Monarch Reimbursement Asset which are not included UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are this year.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit com m ittee.
89 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statem ents and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagem ent team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these m atters.
The risk Our response Valuation of b rand, Forecast-b ased valuation Our procedures included: customer relationships On 15 August 2018 the Group Assessing exp erts: We assessed the com petency of PwC who agents and customer acquired Classic Collection Holidays were commissioned by the Group to value the brand, customer relationships Limited and its subsidiaries.
relationships with agents and customer relationships with individuals arising on individuals.
Using our knowledge of the sector we challenged the the Classic Collection The accounting for this acquisition basis used to derive the valuations and the conclusions reached: acquisition involves judgement in respect of the recognition and valuation of Sensitivity analysis: We performed sensitivity analysis over Brand of 4.4m m illion intangible assets, in particular the assumptions used in the determining the valuation of the Classic brand and customer relationships Collection brand, customer relationships with agents and customer Customer relationships due to the inherent uncertainty relationships with individuals in order to identify the key agents of 4.4m involved in forecasting and assumptions over which to focus our work.
discounting future cash flows which Custom er relationships Assessing forecasts: We evaluated the assumptions used to are the basis for the valuation of individuals of 2.1m calculate the fair value of the brand, customer relationships with these intangibles.
agents and customer relationships with individuals, in particular the Refer to page 57 Audit royalty rate that such a brand could achieve using our valuation Com m ittee Report, page specialists and the attrition rates attributed to customer 104 accounting policy relationships with agents.
We also assessed the assumptions and page 115 financial driving the cash flow forecasts for the brand and both customer disclosures.
Assessing transp arency: We assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures over the determination of the Classic Collection brand, customer relationships with agents and customer relationships with individuals valuations.
Our results We found the fair value of the brand, customer relationship agents and customer relationships individuals acquired as part of the Classic Collection acquisition to be acceptable.
We continue to perform procedures over the capitalisation of website development costs.
However, as the subjectivity required in the process for determining the costs that are capitalised has reduced we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit.
Therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
90 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Recoverab ility of p arent Low risk, high value Our procedures included: comp anys investment in The carrying amount of the parent Test of detail: Comparing the carrying subsidiary com panys investm ent in subsidiary am ount of the investm ent with the 132.6 million: 2017: 132.6 represents 64% 2017: 64% of the subsidiarys draft balance sheet to identify million com panys total assets.
Their whether its net assets, audited as part of recoverability is not at a high risk of the Groups audit and being an Refer to page 57 Audit significant m isstatem ent or subject to approximation of its minimum recoverable Com m ittee Report, page 134 significant judgement.
However, due to amount, was in excess of its carrying accounting policy and page 134 their materiality in the context of the amount and assessing whether the financial disclosures.
parent company financial statements, subsidiary has historically been profitthis is considered to be the area that had m aking: and the greatest effect on our overall parent Comp aring valuations: Comparing the com pany audit.
carrying amount of the investment to the groups m arket capitalisation to assess whether there are any indicators of investm ents im pairm ent.
Our results We found the Groups assessm ent of the recoverability of the Parent Companys investment in subsidiary to be acceptable.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statem ents as a whole was set at 1.3 m illion determ ined with reference to a benchm ark of group profit before Group Materiality Normalised Group p rofit tax, normalised to exclude this years Classic 1.3m 2017: 1.1m b efore tax Collection acquisition costs of 0.6m illion 2017: 26.7m actual 2017: norm alized to exclude exceptional costs of 2.7m 23.8m as set out in Note 6, of which it represents 5% 1.3m 2017: 5% Whole financial statements materiality Materiality for the Parent Company financial 2017: 1.1m statem ents as a whole was set at 1.1 million 2017: 1.0 million, determined with reference 1.1m to a benchmark of com pany total assets of Range of materiality at 10 206.5 m illion 2017: 206.7m of which it 26.7 1.3 2017: 9 components 0.31m represents 0.5% 2017 0.5%.
to 1.1m 2017: 0.8m to 1.0m We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified m isstatem ents exceeding 70k, in addition to other identified m isstatem ents that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Normalised PBT 66k Group materiality Of the Groups 10 2017: 9 reporting Misstatements reported to the components, we subjected 4 2017: 5 to full audit committee 2017: 55k scope audits for group purposes.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for 100% of the Groups revenue 2017: 100%, 100% of the Groups profit before tax 2017: 100% and 99.9% 2017: 99.9% of Group total assets.
All work was performed by the group audit team.
91 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Irregularities ability to detect which we are required to report by exception We are required to report to you if: Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report we have anything material to add or draw attention to We identified areas of laws and regulations that could statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw to you if, in our opinion: in relation to the directors statement in note 2b to the attention to in relation to: reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements on the use of the going concern adequate accounting records have not been kept by the financial statements from our sector experience, and basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have through discussion with the directors and other the directors confirmation within the viability statement may cast significant doubt over the Group and not been received from branches not visited by us: or management as required by auditing standards.
that they have carried out a robust assessm ent of the Companys use of that basis for a period of at least the parent Company financial statements and the part principal risks facing the Group, including those that We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly twelve months from the date of approval of the of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited would threaten its business model, future performance, affect the financial statements including financial reporting financial statem ents: or are not in agreement with the accounting records and solvency and liquidity: including related company legislation and taxation if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out returns: or legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with on page 32 is materially inconsistent with our audit the principal risks and uncertainties disclosures those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified knowledge.
describing these risks and explaining how they are being related financial statement items.
by law are not made: or managed and mitigated: and We have nothing to report in these respects.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and we have not received all the information and regulations in the specific areas of the ATOL regulation and explanations we require for our audit.
We have nothing to report on the other information the directors explanation in the viability statement of The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements in the Annual Report how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, Regulations recognising the financial and regulated nature We have nothing to report in these respects.
over what period they have done so and why they of the groups activities and its legal form.
With the The directors are responsible for the other information considered that period to be appropriate, and their exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as presented in the Annual Report together with the financial 7.
Respective responsibilities statem ent as to whether they have a reasonable required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these statem ents.
Our opinion on the financial statem ents does expectation that the Group will be able to continue in was limited to enquiry of the directors and other not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not Directors responsibilities operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the management and inspection of regulatory and legal express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated period of their assessment, including any related correspondence.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 73, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the We communicated identified laws and regulations Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in qualifications or assum ptions.
financial statements including being satisfied that they give throughout our team and remained alert to any indications doing so, consider whether, based on our financial a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine of non-compliance throughout the audit.
statements audit work, the information therein is materially Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the is necessary to enable the preparation of financial misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nonviability statement.
We have nothing to report in this statements that are free from material misstatement, our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and respect.
whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and not identified m aterial m isstatem ents in the other regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, information.
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the Corporate governance disclosures disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: override of internal controls.
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Strategic report and directors report We are required to report to you if: they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic Based solely on our work on the other information: our responsibilities we have identified material inconsistencies between the alternative but to do so.
knowledge we acquired during our financial statements Auditors responsibilities we have not identified material misstatements in the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a audit and the directors statement that they consider strategic report and the directors report: body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about that the annual report and financial statem ents taken as Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken whether the financial statements as a whole are free from a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and so that we might state to the Companys members those material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other in our opinion the information given in those reports provides the information necessary for shareholders to matters we are required to state to them in an auditors irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion in an for the financial year is consistent with the financial assess the Groups position and performance, business report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of statements: and model and strategy: or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material in our opinion those reports have been prepared in the section of the annual report describing the work of Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the Audit Committee does not appropriately address report, or for the opinions we have formed.
from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered m atters com m unicated by us to the Audit Committee.
material if, individually or in aggregate, they could Directors remuneration report reasonably be expected to influence the economic We are required to report to you if the Corporate decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial Governance Statement does not properly disclose a In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration statements.
The risk of not detecting a material departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Report to be audited has been properly prepared in misstatement resulting from fraud or other irregularities is Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our accordance with the Companies Act 2006. higher than for one resulting from error, as they may involve Will Baker Senior Statutory Auditor review.
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and Chartered Accountants We have nothing to report in these respects.
may involve any area of law and regulation not just those 8 Princes Parade directly affecting the financial statements.
Liverpool L3 1QH A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the 27 November 2018 FRCs website at www.
92 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 6.
We have not 6. hing We t o ha re vpor e not t on hin the g t o r ote he pr or m t on att t ehe rs on other matters on Irregularities abi Irre litg y u to det laritie ec s t ability to detect which we are re w q h ui ic rh e w d t e o ar re e r por eq t u by ir ed ex t ce opt rep ion ort by exception Under the Compa U ni nder es A tc he C t 2006, om w pani e es are Arc equi t 2006 red, to w re e apro e rt required to report We identified area W se i ofdent lawis fi ed and ar rea egul s of at ilons aws t ha and r t coul egul d ations that could to you if, in our opi to y nion: ou i f, in our opinion: reasonably be exr pec eas tona ed tbl o yha be ex five a pec mat ter ed iatlo ha effec five a t on t mhe aterial effect on the adequate acc ount aidequa ng rector e ds ac ha count five inot ng rbeen ecords kept hav by e not the been kept by the financial statement fina s nc from our ial stat s em ec ent tors ex frper omi our enc s e, ec and tor experience, and parent Company, pa orr r ent etur Cns om a pa dequa ny, or te ret for ur our ns a adequa udit ha te f five or our audit have through discussion w through ith tdi he sc di us rec sion w tors a itnd ot h the her dir ectors and other not been received f notr been om bra rec ncei hes ved not from visi br ted anc by hes us not : or visited by us: or management as m requi anar gem ed by ent audi ast r ing s equit ra ed nda by rds audi.
the parent Compa the ny f pa ina rent nc C ialom stapa tement ny fina s a nc nd ial ts he pa tatem rt ents and the part We had regard to l Wae wha s a d r nd r ega egul rd ta o l tions aws i a n nd r area egul s tha atti di ons rec in a tly reas that directly of the Directors R ofemuner the Direc atiton ors R R epor emtuner to be a ation udiR ted eport to be audited affect the financia alf fsec tattement the fina s i nc nc ia ludi l stng atem fina ent ncs ia ilnc repor luding f ting inancial reporting are not in agreement with the accounting records and are not in agreement with the accounting records and including related ic nc ompa luding ny rlel egi atsed c lation om a pa nd t nya le xg at is ion lation and taxation returns: or returns: or legislation.
We cons legis ider latio ed t n. he ex We ctons enti der of c ed ompl the ex ianc te w ent of ith compliance with those laws and regul thosa e l tions aws a a snd par rt egul of our ations proc as edur pares t of on t ourhe procedures on the certain disclos ures cer of ta di in rdi ec stcor los sur remuner es of diraec tion tors spec rem ified uneration specified related financial statem ent item s. related financial statement items.
by law are not ma by fide: la w or a re not m ade: or In addition we considered the impact of laws and In addition we considered the impact of laws and we have not r ecei we ved a hav lle not the i r nf ec orei ma ved tion alla tnd he information and regulations in the s regul pec aitfiions c ar i ea n t s he of t she pec AifTO ic a L r rea egul s of a ttion he A and TOL regulation and explanations we ex requi plar na e f tior ons our w a e r udi equi t. re for our audit.
The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations recogni Regul sing atitons he r finec anogni cials aing nd trhe egul fin at aed na ncial ta ur nd e regulated nature We have nothing W to e repor have tnot in thi hes ng e r to r es epor pect ts in.
of the groups activities and its legal form.
With the of the groups activities and its legal form.
With the exception of any ex know cept n ion or pos of as ny ibl k e non nown orcompl pos iasnc ible, e a non ndco asm pliance, and as 7.
Respective responsibilities required by auditirng equi st ra ed nda by rds audi, our ting wor stk a nda in res rds pec, our t of w t or hes k in e respect of these was limited to enqui was r l yi of mi tted he tdi o enqui rectorr sy a of nd tot he di herr ectors and other Directors respons Dire ibicto lities rs responsibilities management and m ins ana pec gem tion of ent a rnd i egul ns at pec oryt a ion nd of lega regul l atory and legal correspondence.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 73, the directors 94 are, trhe di espons recit bl or e sf a or r:e r the pr espons epa ibl ra e tion of for: the the preparatWe ion of communi the cated We ident com ifm ied l uni ac w as ted and ident regul ified l ations aws and regulations financial statements including being satisfied that they give throughout our team and remained alert to any indications financial statem ents including being satisfied that they give throughout our team and remained alert to any indications a true and fair view a t:r s ue a uch i nd f nta er irna vilew cont : sruc ol h i asnt they erna det l cont ermi rolne as they det of non ermciompl ne iancof e t non hroughoutcompli t ahe nce t audi hroughout t. the audit.
is necessary to enable the preparation of financial is necessary to enable the preparation of financial As with any auditA, t sher wite h ra ema ny a ined udit, a t hi her gher e rem risk a ined a of non hi - gher risk of nonstatements that a srta e f te ree m efn rom ts th ma at a ter reia fre l mi e s fro sta m tement m ateri, al m isstatem ent, detection of non-det compl ectiion ancof e w non ithc rel om ev p alint an lc ae w w s ia th nd relevant laws and whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and regulations irregul regul arita ies tions, as it rhes regul e a ma ritiy es inv, a ol sv t e hes col e lus mion, ay i nvolve collusion, parent Companypa s a rbi ent lit C y om to cpa ont ny inue a s abis lit a y goi to c ng ont conc inue er an, s a going concern, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the disclosing, as appl diis cc albl os e, ing, ma a tt ser as ppl rela icatbl ed t e, o goi m attng ersc ronc elater ed t n: o going concern: override of interna ov l c er ont ride of rols.
and using the goia ng nd us conc ing ern ba the goi sisng of c aonc ccount ern ba ing unl sis of es a sc counting unless they either intend t they o l ei iqui ther dat e t intend he Gtro l oup iqui or da tthe e tpa he rent Group or the parent 8.
of our The p audit urp w osor e of k a our nd a to w udit hom wor w k a end t owo e whom we owe Company or to cea Com se pa oper nya or tions to c, or ea ha se v oper e no r ations ealis, tor ic have no realistic our responsibilities our responsibilities alternative but to do s alterna o. t ive but to do so.
Auditors respons Au ibi dliito ties rs re sponsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a This report is m ade solely to the Com panys m em bers, as a body, in accordanc body e w, itin a h Ccha cor ptda ernc 3 e of w P ita h rtC 16 of hapter the 3 of Part 16 of the Our objectives arO e ur to obj obtec ain r tives ea a sona re tbl o e a obtsasin r uraea ncs e ona about ble a ssurance about Companies Act 2006.
Com pa Oni ur es a A udi ct t w 2006 ork ha.
O sur been audiunder t workt ha aken s been undertaken whether the financial statements as a whole are free from whether the financial statem ents as a whole are free from so that we mights s o ta tt ha e tt w o t e he C m ight ompa stany te t so member the Com s pa thos nye s m em bers those material misstatement mater, i a w l m het isher sta due t tement o f, rw aud, het her other due to fraud, other matters we are requi m atte red first w o e s ta are te re to t qu hem ired ito n a sn a tate udi to tor th s e m in an auditors irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion in an irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion in an report and for no ot repor her t pur and f pos ore. no To t other he f pur ullpos est ex e. t To entt he fullest extent auditors report.
a R udi eatsor ona s r bl epor e asts.
ur R aea ncs e ona is a bl hi e gh ass lev ura el nc of e is a high level of permitted by lawper, we do mitted by not a l ca cw ept, w or e do assnot ume accept or assume assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted responsibility to a rny esone ot ponsibi her lity t tha o a n ny the C one ot ompa herny tha an t nd t he C he ompany and the in accordance wit in h I acco SAs rd U an K ce w w ill al ithw IS ays As dU et K e ct w a m ill alat we ays d rial etect a material Companys member Com s, pa as ny a body s mem, fber or our s, a a sudi a body t wor, f kor, f our or thi as udi t work, for this misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise report, or for the opinions we have formed.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
from fraud, otherf i rr om regul fra ar ud, ities ot or her er irrror egul and aria tir es e c or ons er ider ror a ed nd are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be exr pec eas tona ed tbl o yinf be ex luenc pec e tthe ec ed to i onomi nfluenc c e the economic decisions of userdec s taik sen on ions of the ba users s t isa of ken the on ft ina he ba ncia sli s of the financial statements.
The srtia sk tem of ent nots det.
The r ecting isk of a ma not ter det ial ecting a material misstatement res m ulit sis ng f tate rom f m enrt re aud su or lti ot ngher fro i m rregul fraua dr o iti r es oth is e r irregularities is higher than for one r higher esul tha ting n ffor rom one err ror es, ul atsing they from ma er y irnv or, ol avse they may involve Will Baker Senior Wi S llt B aa tut keor r y S e A n udit ior or Sta tu tory Auditor collusion, forgeryc, ol int lus ent ion, iona for l omi gery s, s iint ons ent, ional omissions, for and on behaf lf or of a K nd on b PMG Le Lha P, S lf t of at K ut PM ory G A Ludit LP, or St a tutory Auditor misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and Chartered Account Ch aa nt rte s red Accountants may involve any a m rea ay of inv lol aw five a and nyr a egul reaa of tion law not and r justegul thos ate ion not just those 8 Princes Parade8 Princes Parade directly affecting di the f rectina ly a nc ffiec al t sit ng t atement he fina s. ncial statements.
Liverpool Liverpool L3 1QH L3 1QH 27 Novem ber 2018 A fuller description of A ful our ler des rescpons ription of ibiliti es our is r es prov pons ided on t ibilitieshe is provided on t 27 November he 2018 FRCs website at FR wC ws w w. frebs c. orig.
or pons g. uki bi audi lities tor.
93 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report integrity of the corporate and financial information included on and the group and parent company financial statements in the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law preparation and dissemination of financial statements may requires the Directors to prepare group and parent company differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable annual financial report law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, pages 46 to 46 confirm that to the best of their knowledge: including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit Under company law the Directors must not approve the or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a consolidation taken as a whole: and true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent the management report includes a fair review of the company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing development and performance of the business and the each of the group and parent company financial statements, the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the Directors are required to: consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and The Directors consider the annual report and accounts, taken as prudent: a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the for the group financial statements, state whether they have information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the position and performance, business model and strategy.
EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether Paul Meehan applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Chief Financial Officer subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 28 November 2018 in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
94 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
