110 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of OneSavings Bank plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We were first appointed as auditor on 28 May 2010.
The period of We have audited the financial statements of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 9 financial years ended OneSavings Bank plc the Company for the year 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard the Consolidated and Bank Statements of Financial as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services Position, the Consolidated and Bank Statements of prohibited by that standard were provided.
Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Bank Statements of Cash Flows, and the related notes, Overview including the accounting policies in note 1.
Materiality: 7.1 million 2017:6.4 million group financial 4% 2017: 4% of group profit before tax In our opinion: statements as awhole the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Coverage 100% 2017:100% of group profit Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and before tax of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been Key audit matters vs 2017 properly prepared in accordance with Other matter The impact of uncertainties New International Financial Reporting Standards as due to Britain exiting the matter adopted by the European Union IFRSs as European Union on our audit adopted by the EU : Recurring risks Loan impairment the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs Recognition of revenue on as adopted by the EU and as applied in organic and acquired loans accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 2.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The impact of uncertainties due to Britain exiting the European Union on our audit Refer to Audit Committee report page 83, Risk Review pages 36 to 49 and the CEOs Report pages 15 to 17.
The risk Our response Group and Parent We have developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the Unprecedented levels of uncertainty consideration of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning and All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness of estimates, performing our audits.
Our procedures included: in particular as described in loan impairment, recognition of Our Brexit knowledge We considered the directors revenue on originated and acquired loans, related disclosures and assessment of Brexit-related sources of risk for the Groups the appropriateness of the going concern basis of preparation of business and financial resources compared with our own the annual accounts.
All of these depend on assessments of the understanding of the risks.
We considered the directors plans to future economic environment and the Groups future prospects and take action to mitigate the risks.
Sensitivity analysis When addressing loan impairment and recognition of revenue on originated and acquired loans and other In addition, we are required to consider the other information areas that depend on forecasts, we compared the directors presented in the Annual Report including the principal risks sensitivity analysis to our assessment of the full range of disclosure and the viability statement and to consider the directors reasonably possible scenarios resulting from Brexit uncertainty statement that the annual report and financial statements taken as Assessing transparency As well as assessing individual a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the disclosures as part of our procedures on loan impairment and information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups recognition of revenue on originated and acquired loans we position and performance, business model and strategy.
considered all the Brexit related disclosures together, including those in the strategic report, comparing the overall picture against Brexit is one of the most significant economic events for the UK our understanding of the risks.
and at the date of this report its effects are subject to unprecedented levels of uncertainty of outcomes, with the full Our results range of possible effects unknown.
As reported under loan impairment and recognition of revenue on originated and acquired loans, we found the resulting estimates and related disclosures of sensitivity and disclosures in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a Group and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
112 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Loan impairment Group 21.9 million: 2017: 21.6 million Parent 16.1 million: 2017: 15.5 million Refer to page 83 Audit Committee Report, pages 125 to 127 accounting policy and pages 142 to 143 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response Group and Parent Our audit procedures included: Subjective estimate Controls testing: We performed end to end process walkCredit risk is an area of significant estimate due to the assumptions throughs to identify the key systems, applications and controls involved and is further complicated by the adoption of IFRS 9, used in the ECL processes.
We tested the relevant general IT and effective 1 January 2018.
As a result we have assessed the risk applications controls over key systems used in the ECL process.
relating to this estimate to have increased.
Test of details: We tested the completeness of the Group and Parents watchlist.
We performed credit file reviews over a risk The expected credit loss ECL relating to the Group and Parents assessed sample basis: and independently recalculated the loan portfolios requires the directors to make significant judgments probability weighted ECL for a sample of loans.
and assumptions over the recoverability of loans and receivables.
Historical comparisons: We critically assessed the Group and Following the transition to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, the Parents assumptions in respect of significant increase in credit Group and Parent are required to determine the ECL using a three risk: likely collateral valuations, including timing of recovery: and stage model: the probability of possession given default by comparing them to i.
For loans and advances to customers where the credit risk has the Group and Parents historical experience.
For the Group and not increased significantly since initial recognition, the loss Parents probability of default models we assessed the allowance is calculated at an amount equal to 12 month reasonableness of the model predictions by comparing them expected credit losses: against actual results.
For loans and advances to customers where a significant Benchmarking assumptions: We compared the Group and increase in credit risk is considered to have occurred, the ECL is Parents key assumptions on significant increase in credit risk: calculated based on expected losses over the loans behavioural likely collateral valuations, including timing of recovery: probability life: and of possession given default: and the probability weightings iii.
For loans and advances to customers that meet the Group and attached to each economic scenario to comparable peer group Parents definition of default, the ECL is calculated based on organisations.
expected losses over the loans behavioural life.
Where applicable this is assessed on an individual basis.
Our sector experience: We challenged the Group and Parents key assumptions on significant increase in credit risk: the For loans classified as either stage 1 or 2 and those in stage 3 that definition of default: likely collateral valuations, including timing of are not individually assessed, an assessment is performed on a recovery: probability of default: probability of possession given modelled basis for impairment, with the key assumptions being: default based on our knowledge of the Group and experience of The definition of the significant increase in credit risk: the industry in which it operates.
The loans probability of default PD on either a 12 month or Modelling expertise: We involved our own economic specialists lifetime basis: to assist us in assessing the appropriateness of the Group and Parents methodology for determining the economic scenarios The loans loss given default LGD : and used and the probability weightings applied to them.
The incorporation of forward economic guidance.
Sensitivity analysis: We performed sensitivity analysis over the Group and Parents key assumptions on significant increase in For loans classified as stage 3 that are individually assessed, an credit risk: likely collateral valuations, including timing of recovery: impairment assessment is required at an individual loan level, probability of possession given default: and the probability based on estimated future cash flows discounted to present value weightings attached to each economic scenario.
at the loans effective interest rate EIR.
There are a number of Assessing transparency: We evaluated whether the disclosures data inputs and assumptions including the cost of obtaining and appropriately reflect and address the uncertainty which exists selling potentially repossessed property, probable sale proceeds when determining the expected credit losses.
As a part of this, we and any rental income prior to sale.
For purchased or credit assessed the sensitivity analysis that is disclosed.
In addition, we impaired POCI loans held in stage 3, an assessment is challenged whether the disclosure of the key judgments and performed on a portfolio basis, unless the loan satisfies the Group assumptions made was sufficiently clear.
and Parents definition of default.
There is a risk that the overall ECL is not reflective of the expected losses of a loan over its behavioural life.
This may be due to the ECL calculation incorporating inappropriate assumptions and or the Group and Parents transfer criteria not effectively capturing a significant increase in credit risk.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Loan impairment continued The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, Our results we determined that the impairment of loans and advances to We found the ECL provision recognised and the related disclosures customers has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Note 2 of the financial statements discloses the sensitivities estimated by the Group and Parent.
Disclosure quality The disclosures regarding the Group and Parents application of IFRS 9 are key to understanding the change from IAS 39 as well as explaining the key judgments and material inputs to the IFRS 9 ECL results.
Recognition of revenue on originated and acquired loans Group 407.9 million: 2017: 332.7 million Refer to pages 83 to 84 Audit Committee Report, page 123 accounting policy and page 132 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response Group For originated loans our procedures included: Subjective Estimate Methodology implementation: We tested the consistency of The recognition of revenue interest receivable on loans and methodology and application across the Groups loan portfolios.
advances to customers under the effective interest rate EIR Test of details: We tested the accuracy of data inputs from the method requires management to apply judgment, with the most mortgage systems into the effective interest rate calculations, critical estimate being the loans expected behavioural life.
including interest rates, fees and product lives.
We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups expected life assumptions on its Acquired loan portfolios various mortgage products with reference to historical customer For the Groups acquired loan portfolios, the risk is that estimated repayment behaviour and any qualitative factors management future cash collections do not equal actual cash receipts.
Given the considered relevant to future customer trends.
nature of the acquired loan portfolios, estimation of future cash Sensitivity analysis: We performed stress testing analysis on collections requires significant estimation in respect of the value the key assumptions.
and timing of expected future cash flows.
Any change in the Independent re-performance: We tested the mathematical repayment profile results in the discount received or premium paid accuracy of the calculations through re-performance.
on purchase of the portfolio to be adjusted through a catch up adjustment and spread over the revised expectedlife.
Historical comparisons: We considered whether any catch up adjustments are required on portfolios where the repayment Originated assets profile actual cash flow experience differs from that originally The Group applies judgment in deciding which cash flows are predicted.
For those loans where catch up adjustments have been spread on an EIR basis and assessing the expected life recorded, we assessed the appropriateness of the revised assumptions used to spread those cash flows.
For acquired loans we also performed the following: The expected life assumptions utilise repayment profiles which Control operations: We visited each of the servicers for the represent when customers are expected to repay based on past mortgage books where these are not administered by the Group customer behaviour and any qualitative factors management to test the relevant controls over the recording of loan balances considered relevant to future customer trends.
and interest at these entities: and Data capture: We performed sample testing to assess the Due to the relatively low levels of historical organic lending on accuracy and consistency of the information provided by the certain tenors of longer fixed period lending, the Group has limited servicer companies to the Group: and that this is appropriately information available from which to assess trends in prepayment, captured in the models.
As a result there is increased subjectivity in these assumptions as detailed patterns of customer For both organic loans and acquired loans our procedures included: behaviour have not been clearly established from which to Assessing transparency: We evaluated whether the disclosures estimate expected customer behaviour.
appropriately reflect and address the level of subjective estimation that exists when determining revenue recognition on the Groups The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, loan portfolios.
In addition, we challenged whether the disclosure we determined that the recognition of revenue on originated and of the key estimates and assumptions made was sufficiently clear.
acquired loans has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a Our results potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our We found the resulting revenue recognition on originated and materiality for the financial statements as a whole, and possibly acquired loans to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Note 2 discloses the sensitivities estimated by the Group.
114 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 3.
O ur application of materiality and an overview of the scope 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern of our audit The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the Materiality going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as they at 7.1 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial group profit before tax, of which it represents 4% 2017: 4% position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded of group profit before tax.
that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial whole was set at 5.3 million, determined with reference to statements the going concern period.
a benchmark of company profit before tax, of which it represents 4%.
Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to that uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.36 million, in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in reporting on qualitative grounds.
outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of Scope Group reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report In 2018, as in 2017, the Group audit team performed the audit is not a guarantee that the group or the company will continue of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial in operation.
The audit was performed using the materiality level set out above and covered 100% of total Group revenue, Group In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered profit before tax, and total Group assets.
the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Group profit before tax Companys financial resources or ability to continue operations Group materiality 183.8m 2017: 159.2m over the going concern period.
The risks that we considered 7.1m 2017: 6.4m most likely to adversely affect the Groups and Companys 7.1 million available financial resources over this period was the impact of Whole financial statements Brexit on the Group and Companys liquidity and capital materiality 2017: 6.4m resources.
availability of funding and liquidity in the event of a market wide stress scenario including the impact of Brexit, and impact on regulatory capital requirements in the event of an 4.65 million economic slowdown or recession.
Performance materiality to respond to aggregation risk 2017: 4.13 million As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt 0.36 million on the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going Misstatements reported PBT Group materiality concern, we considered sensitivities over the level of available to the audit committee financial resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts 2017: 0.3 million taking account of reasonably possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these risks individually and collectively and evaluated the achievability of the actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position should the risks materialise.
Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: we have concluded that the use of the going concern basis of accounting is inappropriate or there is an undisclosed material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt over the use of that basis for a period of at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements.
The related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 107 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 5.
W e have nothing to report on the other information in the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability Annual Report statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent assurance conclusion thereon.
with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit viability.
work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit Corporate governance disclosures knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified We are required to report to you if: material misstatements in the other information.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit Strategic report and directors report and the directors statement that they consider that the annual Based solely on our work on the other information: report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic balanced and understandable and provides the information report and the directors report: necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters in our opinion those reports have been prepared in communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 51 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks and uncertainty disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
116 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which 7.
Respective responsibilities we are required to report by exception Directors responsibilities Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 108, if, in our opinion: the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial adequate accounting records have not been kept by the statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to been received from branches not visited by us: or enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the parent Company financial statements and the part of the the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going agreement with the accounting records and returns: or concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent are not made: or Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative we have not received all the information and explanations we but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities We have nothing to report in these respects.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the annual accounts from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the directors as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory correspondence and discussed with the directors the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of noncompliance throughout the audit.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the annual accounts varies considerably.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements and notes OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly 8.
T he purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our affect the annual accounts including financial reporting responsibilities legislation including related companies legislation, distributable This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a profits legislation and taxation legislation, and we assessed the body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might our procedures on the related annual account items.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the annual the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this accounts, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation report, or for the opinions we have formed.
or the loss of the Groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: regulatory capital and liquidity and certain aspects of company Pamela McIntyre legislation recognising the financial and regulated nature of the Senior Statutory Auditor Groups activities.
Auditing standards limit the required audit for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and Chartered Accountants regulations to enquiry of the directors and inspection of 15 Canada Square regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
London 14 March 2019 These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the annual accounts, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the annual accounts, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
