Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of PageGroup plc Opinion In our opinion: PageGroup plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of PageGroup plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet Balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in equity Statement of changes in equity Consolidated statement of cash flows Statement of cash flows Related notes 1 to 24 to the financial statements, including a summary Related notes 1 to 24 to the financial statements including a summary of significant accounting policies of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that obtained is sufficient and appropriate to concern basis of accounting in has been applied in their preparation is provide a basis for our opinion.
preparing them, and their identification applicable law and International Financial of any material uncertainties to the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted entitys ability to continue to do so Conclusions relating to principal by the European Union and, as regards the over a period of at least twelve months risks, going concern and viability Parent company financial statements, as from the date of approval of the statement applied in accordance with the provisions financial statements of the Companies Act 2006. whether the directors statement in We have nothing to report in respect of the relation to going concern required following information in the annual report, under the Listing Rules in accordance Basis for opinion in relation to which the ISAs UK require us with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially to report to you whether we have anything We conducted our audit in accordance inconsistent with our knowledge material to add or draw attention to: with International Standards on Auditing obtained in the audit: or the disclosures in the annual report set UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our the directors explanation set out on out on pages 29 to 34 that describe responsibilities under those standards page 35 in the annual report as to how the principal risks and explain how are further described in the Auditors they have assessed the prospects of they are being managed or mitigated: responsibilities for the audit of the financial the entity, over what period they have statements section of our report below.
the directors confirmation set out on done so and why they consider that We are independent of the Group and page 35 in the annual report that they period to be appropriate, and their Parent company in accordance with the have carried out a robust assessment statement as to whether they have a ethical requirements that are relevant to of the principal risks facing the entity, reasonable expectation that the entity our audit of the financial statements in the including those that would threaten its will be able to continue in operation UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard business model, future performance, and meet its liabilities as they fall due as applied to listed public interest entities, solvency or liquidity: over the period of their assessment, and we have fulfilled our other ethical the directors statement set out on including any related disclosures responsibilities in accordance with these page 80 in the financial statements drawing attention to any necessary requirements.
about whether they considered qualifications or assumptions.
it appropriate to adopt the going We believe that the audit evidence we have Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Revenue recognition for permanent and temporary placements.
Audit scope We performed a full scope audit of 6 components of the Group and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 5 components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 83% of revenue, 80% of profit before tax and 75% of total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality is 6.7m which is based on 5% of profit before tax.
81 | Corporate Governance Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Revenue recognition for permanent and We performed the following full and specific scope audit We concluded that temporary placements procedures over this risk area at 11 components, which covered revenue recognised 83% of the revenue balance: for permanent and Refer to the Audit Committee Report temporary placements page 55 : Accounting policies page 92 : For permanent and temporary revenue streams, we is correctly recorded and Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial identified and assessed the design of key controls to validate in accordance with Statements page 96 that revenue recognition was appropriate and applied in the Groups revenue accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
The Group has reported permanent recognition criteria placement revenue of 629.1million For 10 of the components, we used data analytics covering and IFRS, and that the 2017: 543.3million and temporary all revenue transactions in the year to test the correlation provision for expected placement revenue of 920.8million 2017: between revenue, accrued revenue, accounts receivable and revenue reversals was 828.3million.
For the remaining one component we selected a sample appropriate.
of permanent and temporary revenue placements for detailed For permanent placements there is a risk transaction testing to verify that the revenue recognition around the timing of revenue recognition criteria had been met and revenue was recorded at the correct as revenue is recognised when customer value.
and candidate agreement is achieved, which may be several months in advance Performed period-end cut off testing for a sample of revenue of the start of employment.
Consequently, transactions to check all revenue recognition criteria for the there is a risk that: permanent and temporary placements had been met and that revenue had been recognised in the correct period.
recognition occurs before revenue recognition criteria have been met: Compared the level of permanent placement revenue reversals over the last 12 months, which occur as a result of period end cut-off is performed non-completion of contractual placements, to the provision incorrectly: or recorded against accrued income and trade receivables to management judgement is incorrectly determine if the assumptions used to calculate the provision applied in estimating the level of were appropriate.
We also re-performed the provision provision required for potential revenue calculation to confirm its accuracy.
reversals when placements are not Performed sampling procedures to validate the existence of taken up as agreed.
accrued revenue and trade receivable balances.
Temporary placement revenue is Performed journal entry testing around revenue, focusing on recognised when the customer has manual entries and top-side adjustments specifically around approved the timesheet.
there is a risk that: For all other components which represent 17% of the revenue revenue is recognised before an balance: approved timesheet has been submitted: or For any component representing greater than 2% of the Groups revenue we performed period-end cut off testing that period end cut-off is performed for a sample of revenue transactions to check that all incorrectly.
revenue recognition criteria for the permanent and temporary For both permanent and temporary placements had been met and that revenue had been placements we have identified the recognised in the correct period.
following risk: We performed audit procedures centrally on a country-byManagement override by manipulation country basis to address the risk of an undetected material of revenue through manual or top-side error occurring in these components.
analytical review of revenue and gross profit, and ratio analysis of key performance indicators including revenue and gross profit per fee earner.
statements, and to ensure we had An overview of the scope of our We take into account size, risk profile, adequate quantitative coverage of audit the organisation of the group and significant accounts in the financial Tailoring the scope effectiveness of group-wide controls, statements, we selected 11 of the 36 changes in the business environment reporting components that represent Our assessment of audit risk, our and other factors such as recent Internal the principal business units within the evaluation of materiality and our Audit results when assessing the level of Group within the following countries: allocation of performance materiality work to be performed at each entity.
United Kingdom, France, United States, determine our audit scope for each Germany, China, Hong Kong, Australia, entity within the Group.
Taken together, In assessing the risk of material Italy, Spain, Netherlands and Belgium.
this enables us to form an opinion on misstatement to the Group financial Corporate Governance | 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Of the 11 components selected, we The charts below illustrate the coverage audit teams.
Procedures on the Groups performed an audit of the complete obtained from the work performed by our Head Office were performed directly by the financial information of 6 components full audit teams.
For all full and specific scope components which were selected scope components, where the work was based on their size or risk characteristics.
performed by component auditors, we For the remaining 5 components specific 17% determined the appropriate level of group 59% scope components, we performed audit team involvement as described below to procedures on specific accounts within enable us to determine that sufficient audit 24% Revenue that component that we considered had evidence had been obtained as a basis for the potential for the greatest impact on our opinion on the Group as a whole.
the significant accounts in the financial The Group audit team continued to follow statements either because of the size of a programme of planned visits that has these accounts or their risk profile.
The been designed to ensure that the Senior audit scope of these components may Statutory Auditor visits all full scope 20% not have included testing of all significant 59% locations at least once every 3 years.
accounts of the component but will have Profit During the current years audit cycle, visits contributed to the coverage of significant before were undertaken by the Senior Statutory 21% balances tested for the Group.
tax Auditor to China and Australia.
A visit to The reporting components where we the UK, France, and the Groups EMEA performed audit procedures accounted shared service centre SSC based in Spain for: was undertaken by the Group audit senior manager.
These visits involved discussing 25% 2018 2017 the audit approach with the component 56% teams and any issues arising from their Revenue Full scope 59% 59% components work, reviewing key audit working papers Total assets on risk areas and attending the audit Specific scope 24% 24% 19% components closing meeting for the UK component with local management.
The purpose Total 83% 83% of the visit to the SSC was to obtain an Profit Full scope 59% 57% understanding of the SSC operations, before components perform walkthrough procedures for all Full Scope components tax Specific scope 21% 26% significant processes in relation to the components Specific Scope components countries now supported by the SSC Total 80% 83% Other procedures and perform independent testing of management controls on some of the Total Full scope 56% 60% assets components processes.
The Group audit team led 3 Changes from the prior year regional audit closing meetings or calls with Specific scope 19% 22% regional management and the Group CFO, components The key changes in audit scope since at which key areas of local judgement and 2017 are: Total 75% 82% audit findings were discussed.
Germany which now represents 9% of the Groups 2018 revenue 2017 8% The Group audit team interacted regularly and 8% of the Groups Profit before Of the remaining 25 components that with the component teams where tax 2017 5% was identified as full together represent 20% of the Groups appropriate during various stages of scope component 2017 specific profit before tax, none are individually the audit, reviewed key working papers scope.
It represents 3rd biggest greater than 4% of the Groups profit and were responsible for the scope and location in terms of its contribution to before tax.
For these components, we direction of the audit process.
This, the Groups revenue: performed other audit procedures, together with the additional procedures including analytical review procedures performed at Group level, gave us Australia, which now is the 4th largest on a country-by-country basis, obtaining appropriate evidence for our opinion on the contributor to the Groups revenue and an understanding of the Group wide Group financial statements.
represents 7% of the Groups revenue entity level controls over all components 2017 8%, was identified as specific Our application of materiality and assessing the results of the Internal scope component 2017 full scope Audit reviews to identify any potential component.
We apply the concept of materiality risks of material misstatement to the in planning and performing the audit, Involvement with component teams Group financial statements.
We have also in evaluating the effect of identified verified bank reconciliations to test cash In establishing our overall approach to misstatements on the audit and in forming balances and performed revenue cut-off the Group audit, we determined the type our audit opinion.
procedures around year-end at some of of work that needed to be undertaken Materiality the larger locations within these remaining at each of the components by us, as 25 components.
the primary audit engagement team, or The magnitude of an omission or by component auditors from other EY misstatement that, individually or in the global network firms operating under aggregate, could reasonably be expected our instruction.
For the 6 full scope and to influence the economic decisions of the 5 specific scope components, audit users of the financial statements.
Materiality procedures were performed by component provides a basis for determining the nature 83 | Corporate Governance Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 and extent of our audit procedures.
set out on page 47 the parts of Other information the directors statement required We determined materiality for the Group The other information comprises the under the Listing Rules relating to to be 6.7 million 2017: 5.4 million, information included in the Annual the companys compliance with the which is based on 5% 2017: 5% of Report and accounts other than the UK Corporate Governance Code profit before tax.
We believe that profit financial statements and our auditors containing provisions specified for before tax is the principal consideration report thereon.
The directors are review by the auditor in accordance for stakeholders in assessing the responsible for the other information.
10R 2 do financial performance of the Group.
not properly disclose a departure Our opinion on the financial statements We determined materiality for the Parent from a relevant provision of the UK does not cover the other information company to be 5.9 million 2017: 5.8 Corporate Governance Code.
and, except to the extent otherwise million, which is 0.5% 2017: 0.5% of explicitly stated in this report, we do total assets.
not express any form of assurance Opinions on other matters conclusion thereon.
Performance materiality prescribed by the Companies In connection with our audit of the Act 2006 The application of materiality at the financial statements, our responsibility individual account or balance level.
In our opinion, the part of the directors is to read the other information and, in It is set at an amount to reduce to an remuneration report to be audited has doing so, consider whether the other appropriately low level the probability been properly prepared in accordance information is materially inconsistent that the aggregate of uncorrected and with the Companies Act 2006. with the financial statements or our undetected misstatements exceeds knowledge obtained in the audit or In our opinion, based on the work materiality.
otherwise appears to be materially undertaken in the course of the audit: On the basis of our risk assessments, misstated.
If we identify such material the information given in the strategic together with our assessment of the inconsistencies or apparent material report and the directors report Groups overall control environment, misstatements, we are required to for the financial year for which the our judgement was that performance determine whether there is a material financial statements are prepared materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of misstatement in the financial statements is consistent with the financial our planning materiality, namely 5.0m or a material misstatement of the other statements: and 2017: 4.1m.
If, based on the work we the strategic report and the have performed, we conclude that there Audit work at component locations for directors report have been is a material misstatement of the other the purpose of obtaining audit coverage prepared in accordance with information, we are required to report over significant financial statement applicable legal requirements.
accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance We have nothing to report in this regard.
Matters on which we are materiality.
The performance materiality required to report by exception In this context, we also have nothing to set for each component is based on the report in regard to our responsibility to In the light of the knowledge and relative scale and risk of the component specifically address the following items understanding of the Group and the to the Group as a whole and our in the other information and to report as Parent company and its environment assessment of the risk of misstatement uncorrected material misstatements of obtained in the course of the audit, at that component.
In the current year, the other information where we conclude we have not identified material the range of performance materiality that those items meet the following misstatements in the strategic report or allocated to components was 1m to conditions: the directors report.
Fair, balanced and We have nothing to report in respect of Reporting threshold understandable set out on the following matters in relation to which page 80 the statement given by An amount below which identified the Companies Act 2006 requires us to the directors that they consider misstatements are considered as being report to you if, in our opinion: the annual report and financial clearly trivial.
adequate accounting records statements taken as a whole is fair, We agreed with the Audit Committee have not been kept by the Parent balanced and understandable and that we would report to them all company, or returns adequate for provides the information necessary uncorrected audit differences in excess our audit have not been received for shareholders to assess the of 0.34m 2017: 0.27m, which is set from branches not visited by us: or Groups performance, business at 5% of planning materiality, as well as model and strategy, is materially the Parent company financial differences below that threshold that, inconsistent with our knowledge statements and the part of the in our view, warranted reporting on obtained in the audit: or Directors Remuneration Report to qualitative grounds.
be audited are not in agreement Audit committee reporting set with the accounting records and We evaluate any uncorrected out on page 53 the section returns: or misstatements against both the describing the work of the audit quantitative measures of materiality committee does not appropriately certain disclosures of directors discussed above and in light of other address matters communicated by remuneration specified by law are relevant qualitative considerations in us to the audit committee: or not made: or forming our opinion.
we have not received all the Directors statement of information and explanations we compliance with the UK require for our audit Corporate Governance Code Corporate Governance | 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our approach was as follows: Responsibilities of directors Other matters we are required to We obtained an understanding of address As explained more fully in the directors the legal and regulatory frameworks responsibilities statement set out on page We were appointed by the company that are applicable to the Group and 80, the directors are responsible for the in June 2011 to audit the financial determined that the most significant preparation of the financial statements statements for the year ended 31 are those that relate to the reporting and for being satisfied that they give a true December 2011 and subsequent framework IFRS, the Companies Act and fair view, and for such internal control financial periods.
2006 and UK Corporate Governance as the directors determine is necessary The period of total uninterrupted Code and the relevant tax compliance to enable the preparation of financial engagement including previous renewals regulations in the jurisdictions in statements that are free from material and reappointments is 8 years, covering which the Group operates.
There are misstatement, whether due to fraud the years ending 31 December 2011 no significant, industry specific laws or error.
to 2018. or regulations that we considered in In preparing the financial statements, the determining our approach.
The non-audit services prohibited by directors are responsible for assessing We understood how PageGroup plc the FRCs Ethical Standard were not the Group and Parent companys ability to is complying with those frameworks provided to the Group or the Parent continue as a going concern, disclosing, by making enquiries of management, company and we remain independent as applicable, matters related to going internal audit, those responsible for of the Group and the Parent company concern and using the going concern basis legal and compliance procedures in conducting of accounting unless the directors either and the company secretary.
intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent corroborated our enquiries through our The audit opinion is consistent with company or to cease operations, or have review of board minutes and papers the additional report to the audit no realistic alternative but to do so.
provided to the Audit Committee.
assessment included the tone from the top and the emphasis on a culture Auditors responsibilities for the Use of our report of honest and ethical behaviour.
audit of the financial statements This report is made solely to the companys We assessed the susceptibility of Our objectives are to obtain reasonable members, as a body, in accordance with the Groups financial statements to assurance about whether the financial Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies material misstatement, including statements as a whole are free from Act 2006.
Our audit work has been how fraud might occur by meeting material misstatement, whether due to undertaken so that we might state to with management from various fraud or error, and to issue an auditors the companys members those matters parts of the business to understand report that includes our opinion.
we are required to state to them in an where it considered there was Reasonable assurance is a high level auditors report and for no other purpose.
We also of assurance, but is not a guarantee To the fullest extent permitted by law, we considered performance targets that an audit conducted in accordance do not accept or assume responsibility and their propensity to influence on with ISAs UK will always detect a to anyone other than the company and efforts made by management to material misstatement when it exists.
the companys members as a body, for manage earnings.
We considered the Misstatements can arise from fraud or error our audit work, for this report, or for the programmes and controls that the and are considered material if, individually opinions we have formed.
Group has established to address or in the aggregate, they could reasonably risks identified, or that otherwise be expected to influence the economic prevent, deter and detect fraud: and decisions of users taken on the basis of Bob Forsyth Senior Statutory Auditor how senior management monitors these financial statements.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Based on this understanding we Statutory Auditor Explanation as to what extent the designed our audit procedures to London audit was considered capable of identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures 5 March 2019 detecting irregularities, including were focused on revenue recognition, fraud Notes: which is described in more detail in 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the The objectives of our audit, in respect to our Key audit matters and journal PageGroup plc web site is the responsibility fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks entry testing, with a focus on manual of the directors: the work carried out by of material misstatement of the financial or top-side adjustments.
the auditors does not involve consideration statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient of these matters and, accordingly, the Our audit procedures were auditors accept no responsibility for any appropriate audit evidence regarding the communicated to and performed by changes that may have occurred to the assessed risks of material misstatement our component teams.
financial statements since they were initially due to fraud, through designing and presented on the web site.
implementing appropriate responses: A further description of our responsibilities 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and to respond appropriately to fraud or governing the preparation and for the audit of the financial statements suspected fraud identified during the audit.
dissemination of financial statements may is located on the Financial Reporting differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
However, the primary responsibility for the Councils website at https: www.
prevention and detection of fraud rests with uk .
This description both those charged with governance of the forms part of our auditors report.
