C INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Paragon Banking Group PLC 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Paragon Banking Group PLC the Company for the year ended 30 September 2018 which comprise the: Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements Consolidated and Company Statements of Movements in Equity related notes, including the accounting policies in note 4, other than the disclosures labelled as unaudited in note 7.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 9 February 2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the three financial years ended 30 September 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
We combined our knowledge and understanding gained through the audit of the Group in previous years with a consideration of external and internal developments and the risks they present to the Groups business model and how these risks are mitigated.
These have been continually reassessed through the audit process.
That consideration includes discussions not only with the Group, and ongoing knowledge gained through reading pertinent information, but also reflected the views of the Prudential Regulatory Authority, market analysts, specialists within our firm, and peer comparisons.
The final result of our risk consideration is shown in the table below, where we have continued to show the segments of the Group in which each of the risks arise and the movements in those risks compared with the prior year.
We have identified eight areas of significant risk at Group level, but we are of the view that three of these revenue recognition on loans and advances, impairment of loans and receivables and recoverability of goodwill - represent the greatest significance.
We have also identified one key audit matter for the parent company only, being investment in subsidiaries risk.
These key audit matters are detailed within Section 2 of our report.
PAGE 134 Independent Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts The factors that have caused the greatest impact on the changes in audit risk arising from significant risks are: Increased audit risk due to the acquisitions by the Group of the Iceberg and Titlestone businesses during the year, resulting in the recognition of goodwill on acquisition.
The increased historical experience of asset backed loan notes and the availability of alternative sources of funding by the Group, have together decreased the audit risk of the recognition of interest payable on asset backed loan notes.
Audit risk regarding the retirement benefit obligation valuation reducing compared to the prior period as the prior year included significant transfers out of the scheme.
A fall in conduct and regulatory redress due to the settlement by the Group of historic litigation cases.
GROUP Segments Mortgages Commercial Lending Idem Capital Unallocated Revenue recognition on loans and advances Impairment of loans and receivables Recoverability of goodwill Interest payable on asset backed loan notes Retirement benefit obligation valuation Hedge accounting and valuation of derivatives Conduct and regulatory redress Disclosure impact of new IFRSs New Risk Accounting for one-off transactions Share option scheme Financial reporting Taxation risk Going concern Financial control process Consolidation adjustments PARENT COMPANY ONLY Investments in subsidiaries Key: Key audit matter Significant risk not considered to be key audit matter Other area of audit focus Movement in risk compared to prior year PAGE 135 Independent Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Audit Risk 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters which do not include two items reported in 2017, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue recognition on loans and advances 408.9 million: 2017: 375.1 million Refer to page 81 Audit Committee Report, page 154 accounting policy and page 186 financial disclosures.
The risk Subjective estimate: The recognition of revenue interest receivable on loans and advances to customers under the effective interest rate EIR method requires the directors to apply judgement, with the most critical estimate being the loans expected behavioural life for originated assets and estimated remaining collections ERCs for acquired loan portfolios.
Originated assets: The expected life assumptions utilise repayment profiles which represent how customers are expected to pay.
These profiles extend significantly into the future which creates a high level of estimation uncertainty and subjects the judgement to future market changes.
The Group makes its expected life assumptions based on its forecasting process which incorporates both historical experience and judgemental overlays by management.
The cohorts of loans and advances which require the most judgement are buy-to-let products which were originated by the Group post-2010.
Following recent developments in regulation and tax on buy-to-let products, the future expected lives of these loans are likely to be impacted by the availability to customers of re-mortgages or alternative funding from other providers, which has increased the level of judgement required over expected lives.
There is also less historical experience for the newer lending in this segment due to their relatively unseasoned nature.
The Groups developing customer retention strategies also require management to make judgements in respect of the accounting for customers who have switched to a new fixed rate product rather than moving onto a variable reversionary interest rate, specifically in terms of the reforecasting of cash flows and the expectations of future customer behaviour.
Acquired loan portfolios: For the Groups acquired debt portfolio, the risk is that estimated future cash collections are not reflected by actual cash receipts.
Given the nature of the Groups debt portfolios, estimation of future cash collections requires significant judgement to make assumptions about the value, probability and timing of expected future cash flows for each type of asset class within a portfolio.
Our response Our procedures included: Originated assets: Historical comparison: We critically assessed the Groups analysis and key assumptions over the repayment profiles by comparing them to the Groups historical trends and actual portfolio behaviour: this included assessing the appropriateness of the revised cohort segmentation and the treatment of product switches: and Sensitivity analysis: We performed sensitivity analysis over the repayment profiles by applying alternative profiles based upon the above procedures.
Acquired loan portfolios: Historical comparison: We critically assessed the Groups cash flow forecasts by comparing them to current and past performance of the Groups portfolios, including recent cash collections.
Both portfolios: Assessing transparency: We critically assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the revenue recognition on loans and advances to changes in key assumptions reflected in the inherent risk: Controls: We tested management review controls over the approval of the Groups repayment profiles: and Accounting standards compliance: We critically assessed the reasonableness of the Groups approach with reference to the requirements under IAS 39.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the revenue recognition on loans and advances to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
PAGE 136 Independent Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Impairment of loans and receivables 107.4 million: 2017: 110.6 million Refer to page 81 Audit Committee Report, page 154 accounting policy and page 193 financial disclosures.
The risk Subjective estimate: The impairment provision relating to the Groups loan portfolios requires the directors to make significant judgements and assumptions over the recoverability of loans and receivables.
Impairment provisions are assessed on an individual and collective basis and we consider the key assumptions and risks for each in turn.
Individual impairment: A critical assumption is the appropriate identification of the impairment trigger.
The individual provision model uses arrears as the primary impairment trigger and for buy-to-let properties in receivership of rent, the property status vacant, held for sale or let and the cure from impaired to non-impaired.
There is a risk that other impairment triggers are not identified on a timely basis or that cured accounts remain impaired.
The other key assumption used within the model is the estimation of the quantum and timing of future cash flows on impaired loans.
This estimation includes past payment behaviour, the expected collections approach, including net rental income from the receivership of rent arrangement through its subsidiary Redbrick, and the likely collateral valuation.
Where the expected collections approach is through net rental income, a key estimate is the expected future rental period.
Collective impairment: For the purposes of the collective provision assessment, the Group calculates an emergence provision based on the previous loss experience for loans that have become individually impaired, overlaid with management judgement.
There is a risk that the overall provision is not reflective of the incurred losses at the end of the period due to the period of time assumed that it takes for incurred losses to emerge, changes in customer credit quality or other market factors not sufficiently incorporated into the model, such as the tax position of borrowers, changes in rental income on buy-to-let properties, and house prices.
Our response Our procedures included: Controls: We tested the key controls over the acceptance, monitoring and reporting of credit risk, including testing of IT controls over the identification and measurement of accounts in arrears: Historical comparisons: We critically assessed the Groups assumptions on past payment behaviour, including net rental income and growth, collateral valuations and growth, the rental periods, the proportion of properties that are vacant, and emergence provisions by comparing them to the Groups historical experience: Benchmarking assumptions: We compared the Groups key assumptions on emergence period to comparable peer group organisations: Our sector experience: We challenged the Groups key assumptions on impairment triggers, net rental income and emergence provisions by applying our own expectations based upon our knowledge of the Group and experience of the industry in which it operates: Sensitivity analysis: We performed sensitivity analysis over the Groups key assumptions on rental periods, likely collateral valuations and emergence provisions based upon our findings from the above procedures: and Assessing transparency: We critically assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the impairment of loans and receivables to changes in key assumptions reflected in the inherent risk.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the impairment of loans and receivables to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
PAGE 137 Independent Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Recoverability of goodwill 162.2 million: 2017: 98.1 million Refer to page 81 Audit Committee Report, page 153 accounting policy and page 206 financial disclosures.
The risk Forecast-based valuation: Goodwill is significant and at risk of irrecoverability due to changes in market factors since acquisition.
The estimated recoverable amount is subjective due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting future cash flows and deriving an appropriate discount rate to reflect the time value of money.
In calculating the recoverable amount, the directors made assumptions over the following key inputs: profitability growth, the discount rate and the long-term growth rate.
Our response Our procedures included: Historical comparisons: We compared the Groups previous forecasting with actual results: Benchmarking assumptions: We compared the Groups assumptions to externally derived data in relation to key inputs such as projected economic growth and discount rates, and challenged management on the forecast business performance: Sensitivity analysis: We performed breakeven analysis and applied alternative scenarios based on the assumptions noted above: Assessing transparency: We critically assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of goodwill to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Recoverability of parent companys investment in subsidiaries 984.4 million: 2017: 819.1 million Refer to page 155 accounting policy and page 208 financial disclosures.
The risk Low risk, high value The carrying amount of the parent companys investments in subsidiaries represents 80.3% 2017: 70.9% of the companys total assets.
Their recoverability is not at a high risk of significant misstatement or subject to significant judgement.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the parent company financial statements, this is considered to be the area that had the greatest effect on our overall parent company audit.
Our response Our procedures included: Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of 100% of investments with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheet to identify whether their net assets, being an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether those subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the impairment of investments in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
We continue to perform procedures over interest payable on asset backed loan notes.
However, as a result of the increased information about the future expected lives of the asset backed notes, we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
We also continue to perform procedures over the retirement benefit obligation valuation.
However, as there have been no transfers out of the defined benefit pension scheme in the year 2017: 3, the risk of inappropriate accounting treatment is lower than in prior year and we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
PAGE 138 Independent Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 6.5m 2017: 6.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax from continuing operations, of 181.5m, of which it represents 3.6% 2017: 4.1%.
Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 3.9m 2017: 3.9m, determined with reference to a benchmark of company net assets, of which it represents 0.6% 2017: 0.6%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.3m 2017: 0.3m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
profit before tax Group materiality 181.5m 2017: 144.8m 6.5m 2017: 6.0m profit before tax 6.5m Group materiality Whole financial statements materiality 2017: 6.0m 0.3m Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee 2017: 0.3m In 2018, the Group audit team performed the audit of Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using the materiality level set above.
In 2017 we identified two components both of which were subjected to audits for group reporting purposes and audited to component materiality.
IFRS 9 The Group is adopting IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from 1 October 2018 and has included an estimate of the financial impact of the change in accounting standard in accordance with IAS 8 Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors as set out in note 3.
This disclosure notes that the Group continues to refine its expected credit loss model and embed its operational processes which may change the actual impact on adoption.
While further testing of the financial impact will be performed as part of our 2019 year-end audit, we have performed sufficient audit procedures for the purposes of assessing the disclosures made in accordance with IAS 8.
Specifically we have: Considered the appropriateness of key technical decisions, judgements, assumptions and elections made by management: Considered key classification and measurement decisions, including business model assessments and solely payment of principal and interest outcomes: Involved credit risk modelling and economic specialists in the consideration of credit risk modelling decisions and macroeconomic variables, including forward economic guidance and generation of multiple economic scenarios: and Considered transitional controls and governance processes related to the approval of the estimated transitional impact.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in note 4 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 48 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
PAGE 139 Independent Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic Report and Directors Report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within the Future prospects section, Section A4, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks, in Section B6.5, describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
PAGE 140 Independent Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 7.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 131, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: and assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Additionally, they are responsible for: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, and through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of regulatory capital and liquidity and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the financial and regulated nature of the Groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Simon Clark Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants One Snowhill Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham B4 6GH 21 November 2018 PAGE 141 Independent Auditors Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2018 Annual Report and Accounts D. THE ACCOUNTS Showing the financial position, results and cash flows of the Group and the Company prepared in accordance with IFRS and UK law PAGE 144 D1 Primary Financial Statements PAGE 144 D1.1 Consolidated Income Statement PAGE 144 D1.2 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income D1.3 Consolidated Balance Sheet PAGE 145 D1.4 Company Balance Sheet PAGE 146 D1.5 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement PAGE 147 D1.6 Company Cash Flow Statement PAGE 147 PAGE 148 D1.7 Consolidated Statement of Movements in Equity PAGE 149 D1.8 Company Statement of Movements in Equity PAGE 150 D2 Notes to the Accounts
