Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 134 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion Basis for opinion In our opinion, Pearson plcs Group financial statements and parent We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards company financial statements the financial statements : on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the under ISAs UK are further described in the auditors responsibilities parent companys affairs at 31 December 2018 and of the for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
Groups profit and of the Groups and the parent companys We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient cash flows for the year then ended: and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Independence Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the Union and, as regards the parent companys financial statements, ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as Act 2006: and applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided We have audited the financial statements, included within the to the Group or to the parent company.
Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: Other than those disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements, we the consolidated and company balance sheets at 31 December have provided no non-audit services to the Group or to the parent 2018: the consolidated income statement and consolidated company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company cash flow statements and the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the consolidated financial statements and notes to the company financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 25 million 2017: 22 million based on approximately 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Materiality Overall parent company materiality: 45 million 2017: 20 million based on approximately 1% of net assets.
Audit scope We conducted work in four key territories, being the UK, US, Brazil and Italy.
Audit scope This included full scope audits at three reporting components and specific audit procedures at a further 20 components.
In addition, we obtained an audit opinion on the financial information reported by the Groups associate, Penguin Random House.
The territories where we conducted audit procedures, together with work performed Areas of focus at corporate functions and at the Group level, accounted for approximately: 69% of the Groups revenue: 64% of the Groups profit before tax: and 63% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
Areas of focus for the 2018 audit were as follows: Carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets Group Returns provisioning Group Recoverability of pre-publication assets Group Accounting for major transactions Group Provisions for uncertain tax positions Group Finance transformation Group Risk of fraud in revenue recognition Group Carrying values of investments in subsidiaries parent company Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 135 The scope of our audit There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
forgery or intentional misrepresentations or through collusion.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, Based on our understanding of the Group and the industry in which including fraud.
As in all of our audits, we addressed the risk of it operates, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance management override of internal controls, including testing journals with laws and regulations related to the failure to comply with and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors international tax regulations and we considered the extent to that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud, which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries, management bias in accounting for estimates and manipulation of cut-off of shipments at major warehouse locations.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors included: Discussions with management, internal audit and the Groups legal advisors, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud: Evaluation of the effectiveness of managements controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities: and Identifying and testing significant manual journal entries and reviewing assumptions and judgements made by management in making significant accounting estimates.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 136 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets Refer to note 11 in the Group financial statements.
We obtained managements fair value less costs of disposal impairment model and tested and evaluated the reasonableness of key assumptions, including CGU The Group recorded goodwill of 2,111m and intangible assets identification: operating cash flow forecasts and key inputs into these forecasts: of 898m at 31 December 2018, including software, acquired the appropriateness of the inclusion of restructuring cost savings: perpetuity growth customer lists, contracts and relationships, acquired rates: and discount rates.
trademarks and brands and acquired publishing rights.
We tested the mathematical integrity of the forecasts and carrying values in The Group recorded an impairment charge of 2,548m in 2016 managements impairment model and we confirmed that managements estimate against the North America CGU.
The carrying values of goodwill of each CGUs recoverable amount is appropriately based on the higher of fair value and intangible assets are dependent on future cash flows of the less costs of disposal and value-in-use.
Our procedures focused on the North America, underlying CGUs and there is a risk that if management does not Core and Brazil CGUs where there was lower available headroom.
achieve these cash flows it could give rise to further impairment charges.
This risk increases in periods when the Groups trading We agreed the forecast cash flows to board approved budgets, assessed how these performance and projections do not meet expectations.
budgets are compiled and understood key related judgements and estimates, including short-term growth rates, corporate cost allocations and restructuring The impairment reviews performed by management contain a costs and related savings.
number of significant judgements and estimates.
Changes in these assumptions can result in materially different impairment We deployed valuations experts to assess the perpetuity growth rate and discount charges or available headroom.
rate for each CGU by comparison with third party information, past performance and relevant risk factors.
We also considered managements estimate of disposal costs for reasonableness.
We performed our own sensitivity analyses to understand the impact of reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
We agreed with managements decision to provide additional disclosures and sensitivities in note 11 of the consolidated financial statements in relation to the North America, Core and Brazil CGUs.
Returns provisioning Refer to notes 1b and 24 in the Group financial statements.
We assessed managements evaluation of market trends and the Groups responses and considered whether managements methodology and three year averaging The Group has provided 173m for sales returns at 31 December remained appropriate.
We tested the returns provision calculations at 31 December 2018.
The most significant exposure to potential returns within 2018 and agreed inputs such as historical sales and returns experience to the Group arises in the US higher education courseware business.
Trends in the US market, including the growth of textbook rentals and the availability of free online content, continue to affect this We performed detailed testing over shipment and returns levels around the year-end business and have the potential to impact returns levels if in particular at major shipping locations in the US and UK and evaluated whether these shipping practices and arrangements with retailers are not gave rise to an increased risk of future returns.
We concluded that management had managed in response to these trends.
adopted methods and reached estimates for future returns that were supportable and appropriate.
Management provides for returns based on past experience by customer and channel, using a three year average methodology.
Recoverability of pre-publication assets Refer to notes 20 and 32 in the Group financial statements.
We assessed the appropriateness of capitalisation and amortisation policies and selected a sample of costs deferred to the balance sheet as pre-publication assets to The Group has 817m of pre-publication assets at 31 December test their magnitude and appropriateness for capitalisation and the reasonableness 2018 and a further 242m recorded in businesses classified as of amortisation profiles against sales forecasts, including considering the impact of the held for sale.
Pre-publication assets represent direct costs transition towards digital products.
incurred in the development of education platforms, programmes and titles prior to their public release.
We challenged the carrying value of certain pre-publication assets where products are yet to be launched, are less proven or where sales are lower than originally anticipated.
Judgement is required to assess the recoverability of the carrying value of these assets.
This judgement is further complicated by We assessed forecast cash flows against historical experience and obtained supporting the transition to digital as the Group invests in new, less proven, evidence for managements explanations.
Where the pre-publication assets formed inter-linked digital content and platforms.
part of a held for sale business, we considered whether the expected disposal proceeds are expected to exceed the carrying value of those assets.
We found the Groups policies to be appropriate and consistently applied.
While recoverability of the carrying values of certain assets depends on future sales growth, we considered the year-end carrying values to be appropriate and supported by reasonable forecasts.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 137 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for major transactions Refer to notes 31 and 32 in the Group financial statements.
We obtained and reviewed the sale agreements and evidence of proceeds received for both disposals completed during 2018.
We reviewed the contractual agreements to The Group has disposed of Wall Street English and UTEL during assess the accounting treatment and classification of proceeds and the gains on disposal 2018.
Pre-tax gains on disposal of 207m and 19m respectively of both Wall Street English and UTEL.
We consider the accounting treatment to be have been recorded on these disposals.
appropriate and the gains to have been appropriately calculated and disclosed.
Additionally, at 31 December 2018 the US K12 courseware business We have obtained evidence to support the held for sale determination including board remains classified as held for sale.
Therefore, assets of 648m approval and evidence in support of a well advanced sales process at 31 December 2018. and liabilities of 573m have been classified as held for sale on From the evidence we have obtained, including the post year-end announcement that a the face of the balance sheet.
The Group has recorded the net disposal transaction has been agreed and is expected to complete in 2019, held for sale assets at the lower of carrying value and fair value we were satisfied that the US K12 courseware business has been appropriately less costs to dispose.
No impairments were recorded on measured and classified as held for sale at 31 December 2018. classification of the US K12 courseware business as held for sale.
Provisions for uncertain tax liabilities Refer to notes 7 and 34 in the Group financial statements.
We engaged our tax specialists in support of our audit of tax and obtained an understanding of the Groups tax strategy and risks.
We recalculated the Groups The Group is subject to several tax regimes due to the tax provisions and determined whether the treatments adopted were in line with the geographical diversity of its businesses.
At 31 December 2018, Groups tax policies and had been applied consistently.
the Group held provisions for uncertain tax positions of 181m.
We evaluated the key underlying assumptions, particularly in the US and UK.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement in In making this evaluation, we considered the status of tax authority audits and determining the appropriate amount to provide in respect of enquiries.
We considered the basis and support in particular for provisions not potential tax exposures and uncertain tax positions.
The most subject to tax audit in comparison with our experience for similar situations.
significant potential exposures relate to US tax, transfer pricing, tax on prior year disposals and EU state aid.
We evaluated the consistency of managements approach to establishing or changing prior provision estimates and validated that changes in prior provisions reflected a Changes in assumptions about the views that might be taken change in facts and circumstances during 2018.
Where provisions have not been by tax authorities can materially impact the level of provisions established, including for material potential exposures like EU state aid, we evaluated recorded in the financial statements.
the basis for managements judgements, including an assessment of the treatment of similar exposures at comparable companies.
We noted that the assumptions and judgements required to formulate these provisions mean that the range of possible outcomes is broad.
However, based on the evidence obtained, we were satisfied that managements provisioning estimates for uncertain tax positions were prepared on a consistent basis with the prior year and were adequately supported.
We also evaluated the disclosures in notes 7 and 34 in relation to uncertain tax provisions and we were satisfied that the disclosures were consistent with the underlying positions and with the requirements of IAS 1.
Finance transformation We centrally managed the work performed by component audit teams at Pearson The Group is in the midst of a period of significant change with Finance Services and in migrating markets like the US, which consisted of controls and the continued roll-out of The Enabling Programme TEP and the substantive testing, and we conducted oversight visits to key sites impacted by the organisational change resulting from implementing the target transformation activities to direct the work performed.
The ERP implementation programme continued in 2018 with certain US and Canadian businesses going live.
We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key automated and This change represents a risk as controls and processes that manual controls both before and after the migration including IT general controls and have been established and embedded over a number of years controls over the migration of data into the new ERP environment.
We also tested are changed and migrated to the new ERP environment.
There is balance sheet reconciliations for migrating entities to identify any migration issues.
an increased risk of break-down in internal control during Where issues were identified, we performed testing of compensating controls and the transition.
we increased the level of transaction testing to address any residual risk.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 138 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Risk of fraud in revenue recognition Refer to notes 1b and 3 in the Group financial statements.
Where books are sold together with workbooks that are delivered later or companion digital materials that are made available online, we assessed the basis for allocation There are two types of complex contracts into which the Group of the purchase price between each element based on individual contractual enters that require significant judgements and estimates, which arrangements and tested the detailed calculations supporting the revenue deferral could be subject to either accidental error or deliberate fraud: calculations.
This included validating adjustments for the extent of user take-up of Multiple element arrangements, such as the sale of physical digital content to underlying support.
We found the revenue deferrals to be based on textbooks accompanied by digital content or supplementary reasonable estimates of the relative fair value of each element and to be properly and workbooks, where revenue is recognised for each element as consistently calculated.
if it were an individual contractual arrangement requiring the For a selection of the larger, more judgemental and more recent long-term contracts, estimation of its relative fair value: covering both assessment activities and online delivery of teaching, we reviewed the Certain long-term contracts that span year-end, where revenue contracts and assessed the accounting methodologies being applied to calculate the is recognised using estimated percentage of completion based proportion of revenue being recognised.
We also tested costs incurred to date and on costs.
These include contracts to design, develop and deliver managements estimates of forecast costs and revenues by reference to historical testing and accreditation and contracts to secure students and experience and current contract status.
support the online delivery of their teaching.
We reviewed revenue recognised around year-end to ensure that it was recognised in These complex contracts generate material deferred revenue the right period, focusing on the Groups major shipping locations.
and accrued income balances and are areas where misstatements In addition, we have performed manual journals testing focusing on unusual or in the underlying assumptions or estimation calculations could unexpected entries to revenue and we have tested the more significant adjustments have a material effect on the financial statements.
The accounting required on adoption of IFRS 15 for accuracy and completeness.
for certain of these arrangements has been impacted in 2018 by the adoption of IFRS 15.
Our testing showed that revenue recognition practices are in accordance with Group policies and related accounting standards with appropriate methods for calculating In addition, there are material shipments around year-end from the revenue recognised.
major distribution locations giving rise to the potential risk of a cut-off error.
Carrying values of investments in subsidiaries Refer to note 2 in the company financial statements.
We evaluated managements assumption whether any indicators of impairment existed by comparing the carrying values of investments in subsidiaries with their The company holds investments in subsidiaries of 6,710m at net assets at 31 December 2018.
For the investment in Pearson International Finance Limited where an impairment of Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less 57m was recorded, we challenged management on the basis of the impairment impairment in the company balance sheet.
Investments are recognised and considered how it had been calculated by reference to the relevant tested for impairment if impairment indicators exist.
If such accounting requirements to conclude on its reasonableness.
indicators exist, the recoverable amounts of investments in subsidiaries are estimated in order to determine the extent For other investments where the net assets were lower than the carrying values but of the impairment loss, if any.
Any such impairment loss is no impairment was recognised, we considered their recoverable value by reference to recognised in the income statement.
the fair value less costs of disposal of the investments compared to their carrying values at 31 December 2018.
Impairment indicators were identified in connection with certain of the investments in subsidiaries due to the carrying As a result of our work, we agreed with management that the impairment charge was value of investments exceeding their net assets.
As a result, appropriate and that the remaining carrying values of the investments held by the an impairment loss of 57m was recognised against the carrying company at 31 December 2018 are supportable in the context of the company financial value of the companys investment in Pearson International statements taken as a whole.
The impairment assessment performed by management was considered a key audit matter given the size of the underlying investment carrying values and recognising the significance of the impairment loss that has been recorded.
The assessment required the application of management judgement, particularly in determining whether any impairment indicators have arisen that trigger the need for an impairment assessment and in assessing whether the carrying value of each investment can be supported by the recoverable amount.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 139 How we tailored our audit scope Taken together, the components and corporate functions where we conducted audit procedures accounted for approximately 69% of We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed the Groups revenue, 64% of the Groups statutory profit before tax enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial and 63% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
This provided statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the the evidence we needed for our opinion on the consolidated Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and financial statements taken as a whole.
This was before considering controls and the industry in which they operate.
the contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of 479 work at the Group level, including disaggregated analytical review reporting units, each of which is considered to be a component.
procedures, which covers certain of the Groups smaller and lower We identified three components in the UK, US and Italy that required risk components that were not directly included in our Group a full scope audit due to their size.
Audit procedures over specific audit scope.
financial statement line items were performed at a further 20 Materiality components in the UK, US and Brazil to give appropriate audit coverage.
In addition, we obtained an audit opinion on the financial The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of information reported by the US component of the Groups associate, materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items determined the type of work that needed to be performed at and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both the components by us, as the Group engagement team, or individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole.
component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality performed by component auditors, we determined the level of for the financial statements as a whole as follows: involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting Parent company financial units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit Group financial statements statements evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Overall 25 million 45 million consolidated financial statements as a whole.
We performed full scope audits in respect of US Higher Education, How we Approximately 5% of Approximately 1% of determined it adjusted profit before tax.
net assets Pearson Education UK, Pearson Italy and Penguin Random House US which, in our view, required a full scope audit due to their size.
Rationale for Note 8 of the financial We consider net assets to benchmark statements explains that be an appropriate We performed specified procedures at 20 components over applied the Groups principal benchmark for a Group financial statement line items including revenue, trade and other measure of performance is holding company.
Certain receivables and deferred income, cash, software intangibles, adjusted operating profit account balances were accruals, provisions for returns, product development and 546m, which excludes included in scope for the one-off gains and losses, Group audit and were amortisation, fixed assets and depreciation, cost of sales and costs of major restructuring audited to a materiality operating expenses.
This ensured that sufficient and appropriate and acquired intangible level set below Group audit procedures were performed to achieve sufficient coverage asset amortisation, in order overall materiality.
over these financial statement line items.
to present results from operating activities on a In addition to instructing and reviewing the reporting from our consistent basis.
From component audit teams, we conducted visits to component teams adjusted operating profit, we in the US New York and Minneapolis, Italy, Brazil and the UK deducted net finance costs.
Belfast, which included file reviews and attendance at key meetings with local management.
We also had regular dialogue For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated with component teams throughout the year.
a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and between 3m and 20m.
corporate functions were audited by the Group audit team.
This included our work over taxation, goodwill and intangible We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to assets, post-retirement benefits and major transactions.
them misstatements identified during our audit above 2 million 2017: 2 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2018 140 Independent auditors report to the members of Pearson plc Going concern Strategic report and governance report In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Governance Reporting obligation Outcome report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the We are required to report if we have We have nothing material to add financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with anything material to add or draw or to draw attention to.
CA06 attention to in respect of the because not all future events or directors statement in the financial conditions can be predicted, this In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and statements about whether the statement is not a guarantee as to parent company and their environment obtained in the course of directors considered it appropriate the Groups and parent companys the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the to adopt the going concern basis of ability to continue as a going concern.
Strategic report and Governance report.
CA06 accounting in preparing the financial For example, the terms on which statements and the directors the United Kingdom may withdraw The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of identification of any material from the European Union, which is the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity uncertainties to the Groups and the currently due to occur on 29 March of the Group parent companys ability to continue 2019, are not clear and it is difficult We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: as a going concern over a period of at to evaluate all of the potential least twelve months from the date of implications on the Groups trade, The directors confirmation on p62, p76 and p127 of the Annual approval of the financial statements.
customers, suppliers and the Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the wider economy.
principal risks facing the Group, including those that would We are required to report if the We have nothing to report.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency directors statement relating to or liquidity: going concern in accordance with The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: and inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
The directors explanation on p76 and p127 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what Reporting on other information period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate and their statement as to whether they have a The other information comprises all of the information in the reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated We have nothing to report having performed a review of the in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent and considering the directors process supporting their statements: with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, and considering whether the statements are consistent with the we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we Listing Rules.
have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
Other Code provisions We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: With respect to the strategic report and governance report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies The statement given by the directors, on p130, that they consider Act 2006 have been included.
the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary Based on the responsibilities described above and our work for the members to assess the Groups and parent companys undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 position and performance, business model and strategy is CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit: matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 5 Financial statements 141 The section of the Annual Report on p96-103 describing the Use of this report work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: and for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with The directors statement relating to the parent companys Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Other required reporting to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, Responsibilities for the financial statements and in our opinion: the audit We have not received all the information and explanations we Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received set out on p132, the directors are responsible for the preparation of from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements in accordance with the applicable Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
are not made: or The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they The parent company financial statements and the part of the determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement statements that are free from material misstatement, whether with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to Appointment continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were related to going concern and using the going concern basis of appointed by the members on 6 February 1996 to audit the accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 1996 and or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted alternative but to do so.
engagement is 23 years, covering the years ended 31 December Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the 1996 to 31 December 2018. financial statements Giles Hannam Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether Senior Statutory Auditor the financial statements as a whole are free from material for and on behalf of  LLP misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance London is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit 11 March 2019 conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
