PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of Pennon Group plc Opinion Use of our report In our opinion: This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Pennon Group plcs group financial statements and parent company Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair companys members those matters we are required to state to them view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as inan auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the parent company financial statements have been properly Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European and viability statement Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Act 2006: and annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 54 to 60 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed We have audited the financial statements of Pennon Group plc or mitigated: whichcomprise: the directors confirmation set out on page 54 in the annual report Group Parent company that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Consolidated income facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business statement model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: Consolidated statement of the directors statement set out on page 100 in the financial comprehensive income statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt Consolidated balance sheet Balance sheet the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their Consolidated statement of identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to changes in equity Statement of changes in equity continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the Consolidated cash date of approval of the financial statements flowstatement Cash flow statement whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required Related notes 1 to 45 to Related notes 1 to 45 to the under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is thefinancial statements financial statements materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 61 in the annual report as The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting period they have done so and why they consider that period to be Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention Basis for opinion to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under Overview of our audit approach those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for Key audit Revenue recognition across the Groups operations the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are matters Valuation of landfill related provisions Viridor independent of the Group and parent company in accordance with the Valuation of the provision for doubtful debts SWW ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial Contract claims Viridor statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to Audit We performed an audit of the complete financial listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical scope information of three components and audit responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
procedures on specific balances for one component.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and The components where we performed full or appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
specific audit procedures accounted for 100% of Profit before taxation before non-underlying items, 100% of Revenue and 95% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 12.9m which represents5% of Profit before taxation before non-underlying items.
108 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk theAudit Committee Revenue recognition across the Our procedures include: South West Water and Groups operations 1,396.2 million, PennonWater Services South West Water and Pennon Water Services PY comparative 1,353.1 million We obtained an understanding of the process for the supply of measured services, We concluded that the meter reading and related billing in order to assess the completeness of adjustments estimation process Risk direction to reflect the accrual or deferral of revenue undertaken by management to calculate We tested key controls linked to system generated information and around the the measured income estimation process for measured revenue accrual reflects latest Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 73 : Accounting We compared the accrued income to bills raised post year end fora sample of operational factors in the policies page 119 : and Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial customers, and compared managements history ofestimating the accrued income key assumptions and Statements page 127 balance to bills raised in the subsequent year to assess the accuracy of the accrued results in an acceptable The Groups material revenue streams relate to the provision incomebalance income accrual.
of water and sewerage services by South West Water and We corroborated the key assumptions and estimates made by management in Pennon Water Services and revenue generated from the Viridor recognising revenue, by obtaining internal and external data on factors that influence renewable energy, recycling and waste management We concluded that demand from customers, such as weather patterns and leaks in infrastructure network services provided by Viridor.
ISAs UK & Ireland presume accruedincome has We tested whether contract terms and conditions were met and revenue recognised there is a risk of fraud relating to revenue recognition.
For beenappropriately at the correct time in accordance with IFRS the Group, given targets associated with financial recognised, and IFRIC 12 We performed analytical procedures by comparing revenue balances for the year performance and pressures to meet market expectations, appropriately applied.
against expectation and obtaining support for significant variances there is an incentive to overstate revenue.
This risk over We tested a sample of transactions to underlying bills revenue recognition specifically arises in the following judgemental areas, where there is opportunity to overstate In performing our journal testing, we paid increased attention to entries impacting revenue: revenue focusing on non-system postings and those raised in the last two weeks of the year.
South West Water and Pennon Water Services Viridor Income from measured water services requires an We compared the key assumptions and estimates made by management in estimation of the amount of unbilled charges at the year recognising accrued revenue in the current year tothose applied in the prior year to end.
This is calculated using a combination of system identify significant changes.
generated information, based on previous customer volume usage, together with management judgements as We analysed revenue trends and corroborated unusual movements to assess the to the likely impact on usage of factors such as recent accuracy of the accrued income balance weather patterns.
The accrued income balance at 31 We obtained customer confirmations for a sample of revenue March 2018 is 61.5 million 2017: 72.2 million for South For material items, within accrued income, we reperformed the calculation of the West Water and 20.2 million for Pennon Water Services.
income that had been earned on waste management contracts and powergen Viridor revenue to confirm the accuracy of the accrued income recorded by management Calculations of accrued income on waste management We tested the application of the IFRIC12 revenue recognised and assessed the contracts and powergen revenue to be received involve allocation of consideration between the construction and operating services provided estimation by management.
The accrued income balance We agreed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted comply with IFRS, in at31 March 2018 is 53.4 million 2017: 42.8 million.
particular the requirements of IFRIC 12, and that the margins used to recognised Accounting for revenue from long term service concession revenue are appropriate through testing that costs were allocated to the correct arrangements under IFRIC12 requires revenue to be contracts and that revenue recognised, based on those costs, is reasonable and recognised on construction, during service delivery and aligned with the individual contract models.
We also compared the margins to those asacapital return on the asset.
The determination of the generated in prior years and to the latest projections for future years marginallocated during the different phases of each In performing our journal testing, we paid increased attention to entries impacting service concession involves management judgement.
revenue, particularly those raised close to the balance sheet date.
At31March 2018 the Group has recognised contract We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area for three receivables of 234.1million 2017: 217.6 million and components, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
otherintangible assets of 69.2 million 2017: 61.3 million.
Valuation of landfill related provisions Viridor Our procedures include: We concluded that 191.9 million, PY comparative 183.8 million managements real risk free We tested the aftercare, restoration and remediation provision models, and verified rate of 2.325% applied to that the models are arithmetically accurate Risk direction the most significant We evaluated the forecast costs in the models, agreeing these to supporting evidence provision aftercare is such as budgets and supplier cost quotations and current performance, including within an acceptable range prices charged by contractors in current year for significant sites 2.00% to2.54%.
We Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 73 : Accounting We assessed the material estimates made for evidence of management bias, including consider key assumptions policies page 119 : and Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial agreeing anticipated cost savings to detailed plans and current performance supporting the landfill Statements page 127.
We benchmarked the discount and inflation rates applied, using our internal valuation related provisions reflect Landfill related provisions of 191.9 million 2017: 183.8 experts to assist in our review of whether managements assumptions are within an managements best million are disclosed in note 32 and consist of aftercare, acceptable range based on comparative market data estimates, informed by restoration and remediation provisions.
We compared the key assumptions used in the calculation of the provisions, including latest external and internal Calculation of the aftercare provision involves significant the discount rates, inflation rates, void space and remaining lives of the sites, to data, resulting in an judgement in respect of the expected period of aftercare, available market information acceptable provision the level of costs to be incurred and the discount rate to We compared the key assumptions used in the current models to those used in the balance.
prior year, and obtained evidence to corroborate that changes were appropriate.
This Key areas of estimation for the restoration provision include included obtaining evidence to support the impact of future planned technological the expected restoration costs, the void space to be filled changes and timing of site closure.
We performed sensitivity analysis on these key assumptions Judgement over the remedial action required to We tested the appropriateness of journal entries impacting landfill related provisions, complywith current environmental legislation, where particularly those raised close to the balance sheet date.
breaches have been identified, is a key estimate for the We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area at Viridor, which covered remediation provision.
We focused on this area given there is a risk that provisions could be misstated due to the complexity of factors to be assessed and assumptions, such as discount rates, applied by management being inappropriate, including the impact of any management bias.
109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of Pennon Group plc continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Valuation of the provision for doubtful debts Our procedures include: We concluded that the SouthWest Water 88.5 million, PY comparative doubtful debt provision is We performed a walkthrough of the process for calculating the bad debt provision and 90.0 million within an acceptable range assessed the design effectiveness of key controls 80.7 million to 91.2 We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls over the integrity of data and the Risk direction million and reflects recent report utilised to generate the ageing and categorisation of debt within South West history of collection of Waters billing system outstanding debts.
We tested historic data on collection rates and evaluated how this data was used in Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 73 : Accounting the preparation of the bad debt provision policies page 119 : and include d within the total Group We corroborated the assumptions used by management in determining the amounts balance per Note 22 of the Consolidated Financial provided against the different categories and age of debt, by comparing these Statements page 144 assumptions to historic collection rates and by considering the impact of changes in The South West Water provision is calculated using a the methods adopted operationally by management to collect debt, and in the combination of system generated information on historic external environment debt recovery rates and managements judgement of the We utilised collection information over the past three years, to determine a range of future likely recovery rates.
the likely ultimate collection of debts existing at the balance sheet date and compared There is a risk that the assumptions used by management this to the provision recorded by management, including assessing assumptions for incalculating the bad debt provision may be susceptible to evidence of management bias management bias and the valuation of the provision against We tested the appropriateness of journal entries and adjustments impacting the trade receivables may be misstated.
We have therefore doubtful debt provision, particularly those raised close to the balance sheet date.
focused on this key audit matter.
We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area at South West Water, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
Contract claims Viridor For the Manchester contract our procedures include: For the Manchester contract, we concluded We inspected contracts and settlement agreements and agreed the accounting Risk direction that the accounting treatment of settled claims treatment applied and We evaluated whether the allocation of income to the various settlement judgements made by arrangements was appropriate and assessed whether the timing of revenue management, particularly Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 73 : Accounting recognition was in accordance with IFRS.
relating to the allocation of policies page 119 : and Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial We tested the revised cash flow models over the contract life and ensured recognition income and timing of Statements page 127 of revenue and costs are in accordance with IAS 18. revenue recognition was During the year, there was significant activity on two of For the Glasgow contract our procedures include: appropriate.
We obtained an understanding of the key assumptions and estimates made by In relation to the Glasgow management in accounting for material claims, assessing for evidence of management Firstly, there was a reset of contracts associated with the contract, we concluded bias and concluding on whether we concur with accounting estimates made by Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority.
This resulted that the accounting management in the settlement of outstanding claims and counter claims, position taken by awrite down of a financial asset and recognition of an We inspected legal advice or opinion management have obtained in relation to management, including the increase in share of profit after tax from joint ventures.
contract positions, quantum of costs and amounts recoverable recoverability of amounts Thesetransactions have been presented as non-underlying due from contractors, is We inquired of management and assessed other evidence, including board minutes, to items in the financial statements.
We have focussed on the appropriate and is based test the completeness of amounts recorded in relation to contract claims key judgements made by management and accounting on supporting legal and We inspected external data, including market announcements, analyst reports and treatment applied to this significant event.
financial reports, to assess the recoverability of amounts due from contractors and whether there is a need for a reserve to reflect any credit default risk.
Viridor is also contracted with Glasgow City Council to construct a Recycling and Renewable Energy Centre in We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in one location, which Glasgow.
Viridor terminated the contract with the original covered 100% of the risk amount.
principal contractor in November 2016 and is overseeing theremaining construction.
Expenditure to complete construction is expected to exceed the original target and management has accounted for what it believes its contractual rightsare.
Where contract claims arise, the claims and the related accounting can be complex.
We focused on this area given there is risk of challenge of the legal position taken and higher judgement involved in assessing the collectability ofamounts recorded.
110 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in Involvement with component teams relation to completeness of provisions for uncertain tax positions and In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we related tax disclosures.
We reported that the Group had reached determinedthe type of work that needed to be undertaken at each resolution with HMRC on a number of areas, reducing the level of ofthe components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or uncertainty over the year end tax liability and the risk of material bycomponent auditors operating under our instruction.
In the current year we concluded this is not a key key locations where we perform audit procedures for the Group and auditmatter.
itscomponents, being Exeter, Taunton and Bournemouth.
The Pennon Group plc and South West Water accounting functions are based in In the prior year, our auditors report also included a key audit matter in Exeter and the audit teams of these components are led by the Senior relation to valuation of Viridors non-current assets.
In the current year, Statutory Auditor.
Separate teams audit full scope component, Viridor, we concluded the likelihood of material misstatement has reduced as inTaunton, and specific scope component, Pennon Water Services, in afurther year of experience has provided management with more Bournemouth.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, confidence that the financial performance in the business plan, which we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to supports the carrying value, will be achieved.
There are no indicators determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis ofimpairment.
for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
An overview of the scope of our audit The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where Tailoring the scope appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our working papers on risk areas, attended key meetings with local allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for management and were responsible for the scope and direction of the eachentity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of Group financial statements.
group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level Our application of materiality ofwork to be performed at each entity.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial and in forming our audit opinion.
statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the six reporting Materiality components of the Group, we selected four components covering The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in Pennon Group plc, Viridor, South West Water and Pennon Water the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic Services, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
Of the four components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of three components full scope We determined materiality for the Group to be 12.9 million 2017: 12.5 components which were selected based on their size or risk million, which is 5% 2017: 5% of profit before taxation before noncharacteristics.
For the remaining one component specific scope underlying items.
We believe that profit before taxation before component, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts non-underlying items provides us with an appropriate measure of the within that component that we considered had the potential for the underlying performance of the Group.
We excluded non-underlying greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements items on the basis that profit before taxation after non-underlying items either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
is not indicative of the underlying performance of the Group.
We also note that market and analyst commentary on the performance of the The reporting components where we performed audit procedures Group uses the same measure.
We therefore, considered profit before accounted for 100% 2017: 100% of the Groups Profit before taxation taxation before non-underlying items to be the most relevant before non-underlying items, 100% 2017: 100% of the Groups Revenue performance metric on which to base our materiality calculation.
and 95% 2017: 95% of the Groups Total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 100% 2017: 100% of the We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be 7.3 million 2017: Groups Profit before taxation before non-underlying items, 88% 7.1 million, which is 75% 2017: 75% of Group performance materiality.
2017:100% of the Groups Revenue and 94% 2017: 95% of the Groups Starting basis Reported profit before taxation 262.9 million Total assets.
The specific scope component contributed 0.4% 2017: 0% 2017: 210.5 million.
of the Groups Profit before taxation before non-underlying items, 12% 2017:0% of the Groups Revenue and 1% 2017: 0% of the Groups Adjustments Non-underlying items increase basis by Totalassets.
The audit scope of these components may not have 4.1 million 2017: 39.5 million.
included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will Materiality Totals 258.8 million 2017: 250.0 million profit have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for before taxation before non-underlying items.
Materiality of 12.9 million 5% of profit before taxation before non-underlying items.
Of the remaining two components that together represent less than 1%of the Groups profit before taxation before non-underlying items, Performance materiality none are individually greater than 1% of the Groups profit before The application of materiality at the individual account or balance taxation before non-underlying items.
For these components, we level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level performed other procedures, including analytical review procedures, theprobability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations to misstatements exceeds materiality.
respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment ofthe Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that Changes from the prior year performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, There was one change in scope from the prior year.
We have set performance materiality at Services, a new business unit, was designated as a specific scope thispercentage based on our assessment of the Groups internal control component for the current year audit.
environment and the extent and nature of audit findings identified in theprior period.
This basis is consistent with the prior year.
111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of Pennon Group plc continued Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken Governance Code set out on page 6 the parts of the directors based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Reporting threshold Companies Act 2006 An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be being clearly trivial.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.7m 2017: 0.6m, which is In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that the information given in the strategic report and the directors report threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the is consistent with the financial statements and those reports have quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
the information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital Other information structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 in the The other information comprises the information included in the annual Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the report set out on pages 1 to 101, other than the financial statements and Financial Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is consistent with the our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with information.
applicable legal requirements: and Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information about the companys corporate governance code and information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider Matters on which we are required to report by exception whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material we have not identified material misstatements in: inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to the strategic report or the directors report: or determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial the information about internal control and risk management systems statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the misstatement of the other information, we are required to report FCARules.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation We have nothing to report in this regard.
to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report toyou if, in our In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our opinion: responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received theother information where we conclude that those items meet the from branches not visited by us: or following conditions: the parent company financial statements and the part of the Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 101 the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report with the accounting records and returns: or and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are understandable and provides the information necessary for notmade: or shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model we have not received all the information and explanations we require andstrategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained for our audit in the audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by Audit committee reporting set out on pages 73 to 76 the section thecompany.
describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or 112 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to Responsibilities of directors material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by making As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set enquiries of senior management, including the Chief Executive out on page 101, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Internal Audit and Audit financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair Committee Chairman.
We planned our audit to identify risks of view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is management override, tested higher risk journal entries and necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free performed audit procedures to address the potential for management from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
bias, particularly over areas involving significant estimation and In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for judgement Further discussion of our approach to address the assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going identified risks of management override are set out in the key audit concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and matters section of our report.
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease toidentify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
procedures involved making enquiries of key management and Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the legalcounsel, reviewing key policies, inspecting legal registers financialstatements andcorrespondence with regulators and reading key management Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the meeting minutes.
We also completed procedures to conclude on financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, thecompliance of significant disclosures in the Annual Report whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that andAccounts with the requirements of the relevant accounting includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, standards, UK legislation and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with We communicated regularly with the component teams and attended ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
key meetings with the component teams, management and legal Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material counsel in order to identify and communicate any instances of non if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to compliance with laws and regulations.
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these The Group operates in the water and waste sectors which are highly financial statements.
As such the Senior Statutory Auditor Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered reviewed the experience and expertise of the engagement team to capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud ensure that the team had the appropriate competence and The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and capabilities, which included the use of an expert where appropriate.
assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through https: www.
This description forms designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond part of our auditors report.
appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of Other matters we are required to address fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and We were appointed by the company at its annual general meeting management.
on31 July 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
Our approach was as follows: The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks renewals and reappointments is 4 years, covering the years ending that are applicable to the group and determined that the most 31March 2015 to 31 March 2018. significant are: The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard Companies Act 2006 werenot provided to the group or the parent company and we Financial Reporting Council FRC and the UK Corporate remainindependent of the group and the parent company in Governance Code conducting the audit.
Tax legislation governed by HM Revenue & Customs The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the auditcommittee.
Health and Safety legislation Environment Agency environmental permits Debbie OHanlon Ofwat regulations Senior statutory auditor UK listing rules for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor We understood how Pennon Group plc is complying with those Reading frameworks by reading internal policies and codes of conduct and assessing the entity level control environment, including the level of 24 May 2018 oversight of those charged with governance.
We made enquiries of the Groups legal counsel, regulatory team and internal audit of known Notes: instances of non-compliance or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations.
We corroborated our enquiries through review of 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Pennon Group plc web site is the responsibility ofthe directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration correspondence with regulatory bodies.
We designed our audit ofthese matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and changesthat may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
regulations identified in the paragraph above.
As well as enquiry and attendance at meetings, our procedures involved a review of the 2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination offinancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
reporting to the above committees and a review of board meetings and other committee minutes to identify any non-compliance with laws and regulations.
Our procedures also involved journal entry testing, with a focus on journals meeting our defined risk criteria based on our understanding of the business.
113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
