PIGIT pp35 58. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 35 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Opinion We have audited the financial statements of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc the Company for the year ended 31 March 2018 which comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet and the Notes to the Financial Statements 1 to 21, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In our opinion, the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 12 to 14 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 12 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 28 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 14 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35 PIGIT pp35 58. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 36 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Recognition of special dividends and other investment income Valuation and existence of the investment portfolio Materiality Overall materiality of 9.2 million which represents 1% of net asset value Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Risk Our response to the risk: Recognition of special dividends and other l Obtained an understanding of Bank of New York investment income Mellons the Administrator systems and controls in this area to ensure the accurate recording of revenue Income is received primarily in the form of including special dividends.
dividends from the investment portfolio.
Dividend income attributable to the revenue l Agreed all dividends received including special column for the year totalled 39.3 million dividends from the income report to an independent 2017: 39.1 million.
pricing source and agreed a sample of these to bank statements.
The investment income receivable by the Company during the year directly affects the l Agreed a sample of dividends and special dividends Companys ability to pay a dividend to paid by investee companies from an independent shareholders.
There is a risk of incomplete or pricing source to the income report.
inaccurate recognition of revenue through the l Agreed all accrued dividends to an independent failure to recognise income entitlements pricing source and agreed a sample of these to post correctly.
Special dividends of 16.1 million were received l Agreed the exchange rates used to convert the 2017 2.0 million, of this 14.1 million were dividend income received in foreign currencies to treated as capital 2017: 0.3 million.
Special dividends represent dividends paid by l For all special dividends received during the period investee companies that are additional to the we challenged the appropriateness of the accounting normal or expected dividend cycle for that treatment adopted through reviewing financial data company.
In accordance with the Association produced by the investee company.
of Investment Companies Statement of l Tested that all dividend income received in excess of Recommended Practice the AIC SORP, special our revenue testing threshold was correctly identified dividends can be included within either the as a special dividend through reference to capital or revenue columns of the Income independent pricing vendors.
Statement, depending on the commercial l Tested for the risk of management override by circumstances behind the payments.
As such, agreeing a sample of manual journal entries posted the allocation of dividends between capital and to the income account and corroborated their revenue requires management judgement, business purpose and rationale.
leading to a risk of incorrect allocation.
l Reviewed the aging of WHT reclaims and assessed There is a risk that withholding tax WHT may whether a provision should be made based upon the not be recoverable and therefore the Income tax environment and the movement in the debtor Statement could be overstated.
balance from the prior year.
The risk is consistent with the prior year.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee The results of our procedures identified no material misstatement with regards to the recognition of special dividends and other income.
Based on the work performed we have no matters to report.
36 PIGIT pp35 58. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 37 FINANCIAL Risk Our response to the risk: Valuation and existence of the investment l Obtained an understanding of the Administrators portfolio systems and controls in this area to ensure the accurate recording of security pricing and units held.
The investment portfolio totalled 1,048.2 million 2017: 1,164.9 million of l Agreed 100% of the quoted investment valuations which 34.0 million was held in unlisted and exchange rates to an independent source.
The l Obtained the stale pricing reports and challenged any investment portfolio management is sub discrepancies to assess stock liquidity.
delegated to Invesco Asset Management l For any unquoted investments, we discussed the Limited, an associate company of Invesco Fund valuation methodology with the Manager, considered Managers Limited the Manager.
the appropriateness of the valuation techniques used The incorrect valuation of the investment and agreed the valuations to supporting documents, portfolio, including incorrect application of including independent third party valuation reports exchange rates and assessment of stock for six of the seven unquoted investments, and liquidity, could have a significant impact on the Invesco Pricing Committee minutes.
two investments priced by the Manager, we have The Directors are responsible for implementing obtained additional financial information about the systems and controls to ensure that the assets underlying companies to corroborate their valuations.
of the Company are not susceptible to l Confirmed that the unquoted valuations were misappropriation and other fraud or error which performed in accordance with the Companys would lead to a material misstatement of the accounting policies as set out in the Companys net asset value NAV.
Certificates of investment ownership are held by l Reviewed the reconciliation of the Companys records The Bank of New York Mellon International to those of the Custodian and ensured that any Limited in their role as Custodian they are both variances were appropriately investigated and the Custodian and the Depositary.
There is a risk of assets being misappropriated l Obtained confirmation from the Custodian of all and the ownership of investments being securities held at the year end and agreed all unsecured.
securities held from the Companys records to those Realised gains are recognised where the sale of the Custodian.
price is higher than the purchase cost of the l Obtained confirmation from the Depositary of the investment and losses are recognised where the investments held together with a copy of the sales proceeds are less than the purchase cost of Depositarys report for the year ended 31 March the investment.
There is a risk that the sales price or purchase l Performed a three way reconciliation between the price has been accounted for incorrectly on the records of the Administrator, the Custodian and the accounting system, and therefore this will lead Depositary and reconciled any discrepancies.
to incorrect recognition of realised gains losses l Recalculated unrealised and realised gains and losses on disposal of investments.
This will also have on a sample of investments.
an impact on the unrealised gains losses l Agreed a sample of additions and disposals to bank recorded which equal the difference between statements in order to confirm the price, quantity fair value and book cost at the year-end.
and total consideration for these transactions.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee The results of our procedures identified no material misstatement in the valuation and existence of the investment portfolio.
In the prior year we included the risk of incorrect calculation of management and performance fees as a key audit matter.
As the performance fee ceased in the prior year, we no longer believe this area requires significant audit attention or that this should be brought to the attention of the users of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the company.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed.
All audit work was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 37 PIGIT pp35 58. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 38 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the company to be 9.2 million 2017: 10.1 million, which is 1% 2017: 1% of net assets.
We believe that net assets is the most appropriate measure as it is the primary measure that investors use to assess the performance of the Company.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and made no changes to the basis of calculation from our original assessment at the planning stage.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 6.9 million 2017: 7.6 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to the absence of significant errors noted in the current and prior year audits.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Company we also apply a separate, lower performance materiality of 1.8 million 2017: 1.8 million for the revenue column of the Income Statement being 5% of the revenue return on ordinary activities before taxation.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.46 million 2017: 0.51 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report is set out on pages 1 to 67 other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: 38 PIGIT pp35 58. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 39 FINANCIAL Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 34 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on page 20 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 19 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the  Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the DirectorsReport for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and DirectorsReport have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of  set out on page 34, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 39 PIGIT pp35 58. qxp 31 05 2018 10:50 Page 40 FINANCIAL INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Company and determined that the most significant are the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the AIC SORP and Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
We understood how Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc is complying with those frameworks through discussions with the audit committee and company secretary in combination with a review of the Companys documented policies and procedures.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Companys financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the key risks impacting the financial statements.
Given the activities of the Company, we consider management override as being most likely to occur in the significant risk area of Recognition of special dividends and other investment income.
Our procedures stated above are designed to address this risk.
Our procedures involved review of the reporting to the Directors with respect to the application of the documented policies and procedures and review of the financial statements to ensure compliance with the reporting requirements of the Company.
We have reviewed that the Companys control environment is adequate for the size and operating model of such a listed investment company.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the Company on 8 March 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is three years, covering the years ended 31 March 2016 to 31 March 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company and we remain independent of the company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
Sarah Williams Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 30 May 2018 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Invesco Perpetual web site is the responsibility of Invesco Perpetual: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
