KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 29 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC OPINION In our opinion: Personal Assets Trust plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 30 April 2018 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Personal Assets Trust plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 30 April 2018 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at Statement of Financial Position as at 30 April 2018 30 April 2018 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended year then ended Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended then ended Related notes 1 to 16 to the financial statements, Related notes 1 to 16 to the financial statements including including a summary of significant accounting policies a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the Annual Report on page 6 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 22 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement on page 22 in the Annual Report about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation on page 22 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Page 29 20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 30 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC CONTINUED OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters Incomplete or inaccurate revenue recognition, including classification as revenue or capital items in the Income Statement.
Incorrect valuation and existence of the investment portfolio.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the Parent company and its only wholly owned subsidiary PATAC Limited collectively the Group.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 8.59m which represents 1% of total equity.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Incomplete or inaccurate revenue We performed the following We noted no issues in our review of recognition, including classification as procedures: the process and controls in relation revenue or capital items in the Income to revenue recognition.
We obtained an understanding of the Statement note 2 of the financial Administrators process and controls We noted no issues in agreeing the statements in relation to revenue recognition sample of dividend and interest The Groups income is received in the through performing our receipts to an independent source, form of dividends from equity walkthrough procedures.
recalculating these amounts and holdings and interest from fixed agreeing them to the bank We agreed a sample of dividend and income securities, being 9.42 million statements.
interest receipts to the corresponding 2017: 9.23 million and 6.26 announcement made by the investee We noted no issues in agreeing the million 2017: 5.86 million company, recalculated the dividend sample of investee company respectively for the year.
and interest amount received and announcements to the income The investment income receivable by agreed cash received to bank entitlements recorded by the the Group during the year directly statements.
affects the Groups ability to pay a We agreed a sample of investee We noted no issues in agreeing 100% dividend to shareholders.
There is a company dividend and interest of accrued dividend to an risk of incomplete or inaccurate announcements from an independent source and agreeing the recognition of income through the independent source to the income cash received to bank statements failure to recognise proper income recorded by the Company.
entitlements or apply appropriate We agreed 100% of accrued We did not identify any special accounting treatment.
dividends to an independent source dividends that were received by the In addition, given the manual nature and agreed cash received to bank Group during the year.
and judgemental element involved in statements were applicable.
We noted no issues in the calculation allocating special dividends between We reviewed the income reports to of bond amortisation for a sample of revenue and capital, we considered identify special dividends, above our fixed income securities including US this to be a fraud risk.
testing threshold, received in the Treasury Bills.
We also reviewed the acquisitions and disposals report for any potential special dividends, above our testing threshold, treated as capital to assess if any should be treated as revenue.
We recalculated the bond amortisation for a sample of fixed income securities including US Treasury Bills.
Page 30 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 31 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC CONTINUED Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Incorrect valuation and existence of We performed the following procedures: We have no matters to communicate the investment portfolio note 8 of the with respect to our review of the We obtained an understanding of the financial statements.
process and controls in relation to Administrators process and controls the pricing of investments.
The valuation of the portfolio at in relation to the pricing of 30 April 2018 was 825.79 million investments.
For all investments, we noted no 2017: 733.48 million.
material differences in agreeing the We checked 100% of investment prices prices and the exchange rates used to The valuation of the assets held in and exchange rates to a relevant an independent source.
the investment portfolio is the key independent pricing source.
driver of the Groups net asset value We noted no issues in reviewing the We reviewed pricing exception and and total return.
Incorrect asset pricing exception reports.
stale pricing reports to assess the pricing or a failure to maintain liquidity of investments held.
We noted no differences between the proper legal title of the assets held by confirmation obtained from the We obtained independent the Group could have a significant Custodian and the Groups records.
confirmation from the Custodian of impact on portfolio valuation and, all securities held at the year-end and therefore, the return generated for agreed all securities held from the shareholders.
Groups records to those of the Custodian.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT TAILORING THE SCOPE Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
MATERIALITY The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 8.59 million 2017: 7.81 million, which is 1% 2017: 1% of total equity.
We believe that total equity provides us with the basis for setting materiality since it is the basis for the key measurement of the Groups performance.
PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 6.44m 2017: 5.86m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
REPORTING THRESHOLD An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.43m 2017: 0.39m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 10 and pages 21 to 28, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Page 31 20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 32 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC CONTINUED In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable page 22 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting page 28 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee the explanation as to why the Annual Report does not include a section describing the work of the Audit Committee is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code page 26 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors' Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and those reports have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: the information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and information about the Company's corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in: the Strategic Report or the Directors' Report: or the information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement on page 21, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Page 32 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 20278 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2018 10:33 Page 33 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSONAL ASSETS TRUST PLC CONTINUED In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
EXPLANATION AS TO WHAT EXTENT THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant are the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code and section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
We understood how Personal Assets Trust plc is complying with those frameworks through discussions with the Audit Committee and Company Secretary and review of the Companys documented policies and procedures.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the key risks impacting the financial statements.
We identified a fraud risk with respect to incomplete or inaccurate revenue recognition.
Further discussion of our approach is set out in the section on key audit matters above.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved review of the reporting to the Directors with respect to the application of the documented policies and procedures and review of the financial statements to ensure compliance with the reporting requirements of the Company.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
OTHER MATTERS WE ARE REQUIRED TO ADDRESS We were appointed by the Company in 1983 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 30 April 1983 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 36 years, covering the years ending 30 April 1983 to 30 April 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Susan J Dawe Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Edinburgh 1 June 2018 Page 33
