92 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSIMMON PLC ONLY Opinion In our opinion: Persimmon Plcs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Persimmon Plc which comprise: Group Parent company Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended for the year then ended Group statement of changes in shareholders equity Company cash flow statement for the year then ended for the year then ended Group cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 32 to the financial statements Related notes 1 to 32 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 44 to 48 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on pages 49 and 50 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 91 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on pages 49 to 50 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 93 Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Revenue recognition Inventory valuation and profit recognition Valuation of shared equity receivables Audit scope We performed an audit of Persimmon plc, as a single aggregated set of financial information.
Our work therefore covered 100% of Profit before tax, 100% of Revenue and100% of Total assets.
This is consistent with our approach to the prior year audit.
Materiality Overall group materiality of 54.5m which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The key audit matters are the same as those that we identified in the prior year.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition We performed the following procedures over Based on our audit procedures this risk area: wehave concluded that revenue Refer to Accounting policies page 105 : isappropriately recognised, and We performed walkthroughs to understand the key and Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial thatthere was no evidence of processes and identify key controls: statements page 109. management bias.
We performed procedures using EY bespoke data The Group has reported revenues analytics tools to test the appropriateness of journal forthe year of 3,737.6m entries recorded in the general ledger by correlating 20173,597.8m.
sales postings with cash receipts throughout the year: We tested whether revenue was recorded in the There is potential for material correct period by testing whether a sample of house misstatement within revenue, sales recorded within 2 weeks either side of the year particularly in relation to revenue end had legally completed: beingrecorded in the wrong period, dueto cut off errors or We validated any material manual journals to assess managementbias.
for any evidence of management bias by corroborating to supporting documentation: and We audited managements application of the new revenue standard, IFRS 15.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 94 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSIMMON PLC ONLY continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Inventory valuation and profit We performed the following procedures over Based on our audit procedures we recognition this risk area: have concluded that the Inventory balance and profit recognised in the We performed walkthroughs to understand the key Refer to the Audit Committee Report year are not materially misstated.
processes and identify key controls: page 64 : Accounting policies page 107 : and Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial We performed testing on the Groups controls over Statements pages 119 and 120. the bi-monthly valuation process.
In testing these controls we attended a valuation meeting to observe At 31 December 2018, the Inventory the level of rigour and the tolerances applied by balance includes WIP of 881.7m management in challenging the assumptions within 2017 723.9m and Land of the site valuations.
valuation meeting minutes in respect of the valuation meetings held throughout the year to ensure that The carrying value of Inventory is matters were appropriately considered and followed determined by reference to a number of up.
This included ensuring that the appropriate assumptions which are subject to levels individuals were in attendance at the meeting of inherent estimation and therefore together with confirming the process which is may be subject to management bias undertaken to challenge the margin, forecast costs toover or understate inventory.
to complete and any other factors that could impact on the margin and confirm that any updates were The carrying value of Inventory is made to the forecasts: assessed by management for For a sample of development sites based on factors impairment by reference to current such as size and risk, we compared the estimated market inputs and assumptions.
and actual costs and margin across the development lifecycle.
We validated the key drivers for changes in In performing the assessment, costs and margin and considered historical outturns management undertake bi-monthly in order to assess managements ability to forecast valuations to determine the expected accurately: outcome of each development and hence identify if any impairment We critically assessed the appropriateness of key isrequired.
assumptions and the commercial viability of sites as determined by management through comparison The same estimates are also used to against historic data and consideration of current determine the margin on each market conditions: development which is used to determine We tested the appropriateness of any provisions the profit to be recognised.
included within the calculations, comparing movements to prior periods, re-computing calculations and performing sensitivity analysis on sites where the margin was close to breakeven: and We assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures in the Financial Statements.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 95 Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Valuation of shared equity We performed the following procedures over Based on our audit procedures we receivables this risk area: have concluded that the shared equity loan receivables are not We performed walkthroughs to understand the key Refer to the Audit Committee Report materially misstated.
processes and identify key controls: page 65 : Accounting policies page 107 : and Note 16 of the Consolidated We critically assessed, based on historic data and Financial Statements page 119. consideration of current market conditions, the appropriateness of key assumptions such as: At 31 December 2018 the Group was Discount rate carrying shared equity loan receivables Recoverability on the balance sheet of 86.9m 2017 117.3m.
This is split House price inflation betweennon-current assets of 70.6m We performed sensitivity analysis over 2017103.2m and current assets key assumptions: of16.3m 2017 14.1m.
We tested a sample of recorded redemptions and The carrying value of these shared agreed them to evidence of cash receipt, ensuring equity loan receivables is based on a that the amounts had been appropriately number of assumptions which contain derecognised: inherent uncertainties and which require We tested a sample of cash receipts received in the management judgement.
year, and ensured that they had been appropriately recorded as redemptions: We tested the integrity and arithmetical accuracy of the calculations within managements valuation model: We audited managements application of the new financial instruments standard, IFRS 9: and We assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures in the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope We performed an audit of Persimmon plc, as a single aggregated set of financial information.
Our work therefore covered 100% of Profit before tax, 100% of Revenue and 100% of Total assets.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 54.5 million 2017: 48.3 million, which is 5% 2017: 5% of profit before tax.
We believe that profit before tax provides us with an appropriate basis for materiality and is the most relevant measure for stakeholders as it is a focus of both management and investors.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be 19.0 million 2017: 18.7 million, which is 1% 2017: 1% of equity.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 96 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSIMMON PLC ONLY continued Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 40.9m 2017: 36.2m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage based on our assessment of the control environment of the group and expectation of errors.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 2.7m 2017: 2.4m, whichis set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 2 to 91, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 91 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 63 to 67 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 62 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 97 Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 91, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 98 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PERSIMMON PLC ONLY continued Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the UK.
We understood how the Group is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, Internal Audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the Company Secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes and papers provided to the Audit Committee.
We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand where it considered there was a susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their propensity to influence efforts made by management to manage earnings.
We considered the programmes and controls that the Group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those programmes and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud and error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals, and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of Group management and Internal Audit: and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
In addition, we completed procedures to conclude on the compliance of the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts with the requirements of the relevant accounting standards, UK legislation and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 14 April 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 3 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain independent of the group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Peter McIver Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London Notes: 1.
T he maintenance and integrity of the Persimmon Plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018
