Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Pets at Home Group Plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Overview Materiality: 3.75m 2017:3.75m We have audited the financial statements of Pets at Home Group financial 4.4% 2017: 3.9% of normalised Group plc the Company for the period ended 29 March statements as Group profit before tax 2018 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, a whole the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Coverage 99% 2017: 99% of Group profit before tax the Consolidated and Company balance sheet, the Risks of material vs 2017 Consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity, misstatement the Consolidated and Company statement of cash flows, and Recurring risks Recurring risk: the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1.
Carrying value of Group goodwill and parent Companys In our opinion: investments in subsidiaries the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state New: Provision for operating of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at loans to joint venture practices 29 March 2018 and of the Groups profit for the period Recurring risk: then ended: Carrying value of inventory the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union 2.
K ey audit matters: our assessment of risks IFRSs as adopted by the EU : of material misstatement the parent Company financial statements have been Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions financial statements and include the most significant assessed of the Companies Act 2006: and risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud the financial statements have been prepared in accordance identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion Basis for opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address We conducted our audit in accordance with International those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
These matters were addressed, Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion consistent with our report to the audit committee.
thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 5 financial years ended 29 March 2018.
Prior to that we were also auditor to the groups previous parent company, but which, being unlisted, was not a public-interest entity.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Pets at Home Group Plc only continued The risk Our response Carrying value Forecast based valuation Our procedures included: of the Group Historical comparison: Assessing the reasonableness of the Groups Goodwill in the Group and parents investments in goodwill and the budgets by considering the historical accuracy of previous forecasts: subsidiaries are significant and have indicators of parent Companys Benchmarking assumptions: Using our own valuation specialist, impairment due to the decrease in market comparing the Groups assumptions to externally derived data in investments in capitalisation during the year.
relation to discount rate: subsidiaries The estimated recoverable amount of these Our sector experience: Assessing whether key assumptions Goodwill: 979.8m: balances is subjective due to the inherent such as projected economic growth and cost inflation reflect our 2017: 979.8m uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting knowledge of the business and industry, including known or future cash flows, which form the basis of the probable changes in the business environment: Investments: Groups value in use calculation.
Sensitivity analysis: Performing break-even analysis on the key 936.2m: 2017: assumptions above: 936.2m Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures Refer to page 74 about the impairment test appropriately reflected the risks inherent Audit Committee in the valuation of goodwill and investments in subsidiaries.
Report, page 118 Our results accounting policy and pages 132 to We found the Groups assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and the Companys investments in subsidiaries 134 financial to be acceptable.
Operating loans Subjective estimate Our procedures included: to joint venture Control design: Evaluating the controls in place over the The level of operating loans extended to the Groups provision evaluation and calculation: practices joint venture vet practices has increased during the Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging key assumptions used, 38.0m: 2017: year, partly as a result of new openings but also as a in particular the basis of the categories practices are allocated to, result of increased loan amounts to existing practices.
23.2m the proportion of loan value recoverable, recovery probability, and A significant proportion of these loans are not forecast change in maturity profile based on our knowledge of the business: Refer to page 74 to be recouped for a number of years which results in a Audit Committee Sensitivity analysis: Performing sensitivity analysis on the key risk over recoverability of the balances.
Report, page 120 assumptions above: The level of provision regarding the operating loans accounting policy Accounting analysis: We assessed, with reference to accounting involves judgement over a number of assumptions standards, evidence of the exercise of the powers of the Group and page 134 financial around the allocation of practices to risk bands upon and the vets in practice at certain indebted practices to consider disclosures.
which the provision is based and appropriate level of whether, on balance, the level of indebtedness was a barrier to provision within each risk band.
There is a risk that the vets exercising their formal powers.
the assumptions and judgements underpinning the Our results provision are not appropriate, and as a result risk We found the Groups assessment of the level of loss provision that the provision is materially under or over stated.
and the carrying value of the operating loans to be acceptable.
Accounting treatment We found the accounting treatment for the practices to be At some practices the increased financial reliance on, acceptable.
for example, indebtedness to the Group might, in practice, alter the otherwise balanced power of the Group and the joint venture partner vets.
A practical shift of balance in favour of the Group would make the practice in question a subsidiary and hence require consolidation.
Carrying value Subjective estimate Our procedures included: of inventory Our sector experience: Assessing the appropriateness of The Group has significant levels of inventory and the Groups inventory provisioning policies based on our 60.9m: 2017: estimates are made in the valuation of slow moving understanding of the business, the industry and the accuracy 56.4m and obsolete inventories, some of which have a limited of previous provisioning estimates: shelf life.
Furthermore there is uncertainty over Refer to page 74 Tests of detail: Comparing the cost of inventory lines and average changes in consumer preferences and spending Audit Committee sales price in the six weeks to 29 March 2018 to highlight negative patterns, which are primarily driven by wider trends in Report, page 125 margin lines and assess whether the Groups provision at the the pet product industry as well as seasonality, which accounting policy year-end date in relation to low and negative margin inventories could impact the saleability of inventory.
and page 157 includes these lines, and is therefore appropriate: financial There is a recoverability risk associated with new Tests of detail: Examining current selling prices for a sample disclosures.
product launches and judgement required in of inventory lines to assess negative margin lines have been forecasting demand which can lead to obsolete appropriately identified and included in the Groups provision inventory.
at the year end: and Tests of detail: Comparing, by product, for a sample of inventory Given the level of judgement and estimation lines, inventory levels to sales data in the twelve weeks to involved, carrying value of inventory is considered 29 March 2018 to assess whether slow moving and obsolete to be a key audit risk.
inventories had been appropriately identified and provided for by the Group based on the provisioning policy.
Our results We found the Groups assessment of the carrying value of inventory to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Pets at Home Group Plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview Normalised Group profit before tax 84.5m 2017: 96.4m of the scope of our audit Group Materiality 3.75m 2017: 3.75m Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 3.75m 2017: 3.75m, determined with reference to a 3.75m Whole financial benchmark of Group profit before tax normalised for items statements materiality relating to store closures, aborted acquisitions and an increase 2017: 3.75m in the fair value of put and call options over non-controlling 3.0m interests of three subsidiaries, of which it represents 4.4% 2017: Range of materiality Group profit before tax normalised for costs incurred in relation at three components to the disposal of a subsidiary: of which it represented 3.9%.
2.5m to 3.0m 2017: 2.5m to 3.0m Materiality for the parent Company financial statements 180k as a whole was set at 3.0m 2017: 3.0m, determined with Misstatements reported Normalised Group profit before tax reference to a benchmark of Company total assets, of which to the Audit and Risk Group materiality Committee 2017: 180k it represents 0.2% 2017: 0.2%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 180,000 Group revenue Group profit before tax 2017: 180,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The work on 1 of the 9 components 2017: 2 of the 3 9 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent Company, 96% 99% was performed by the Group team.
The Group team 2017: 99% 2017: 99% performed procedures on the items excluded from group profit before tax.
96 99 96 99 Of the Groups 9 2017: 9 reporting components, we subjected 3 2017: 3 to full scope audits for Group purposes and 0 2017: 1 to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
In the prior year, Group total assets Group profit tax, excluding the latter was not individually financially significant enough to non-underlying items require a full scope audit for Group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed in the prior year.
1 The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
99% 99% 2017: 98% 2017: 99% The Group team instructed the component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, which included the relevant 98 99 risks of material misstatement detailed above, and set out the 99 99 information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team approved the component Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 materiality range of 2.5m to 3.0m 2017: 2.5m to 3.0m, Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 businesses within the Group.
Residual components Telephone conferences and meetings were held with component auditors that were not physically visited in order to assess the audit risk and strategy.
At these meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Pets at Home Group Plc only continued 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and We are required to report to you if: the directors explanation in the viability statement of how we have anything material to add or draw attention to in they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what relation to the directors statement in note 1 to the financial period they have done so and why they considered that statements on the use of the going concern basis of period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of fall due over the period of their assessment, including any approval of the financial statements: or related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page qualifications or assumptions.
63 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
W e have nothing to report on the other We are required to report to you if: information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information we have identified material inconsistencies between the presented in the Annual Report together with the financial knowledge we acquired during our financial statements statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not audit and the directors statement that they consider that cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in the section of the annual report describing the work of the doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance material misstatements in the other information.
Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Strategic Report and Directors Report specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
Based solely on our work on the other information: We have nothing to report in these respects.
we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: 6.
W e have nothing to report on the other matters in our opinion the information given in those reports for the on which we are required to report by exception financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to in our opinion those reports have been prepared in you if, in our opinion: accordance with the Companies Act 2006. adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Directors remuneration report parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report been received from branches not visited by us: or to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the parent Company financial statements and the part of the the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Disclosures of principal risks and longer term viability agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw law are not made: or attention to in relation to: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
the directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 67 that they have carried out a robust assessment of We have nothing to report in these respects.
the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: Pets at Home Group Plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements 7.
Respective responsibilities We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications Directors responsibilities of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 71, communication from the group to component audit teams of the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the relevant laws and regulations identified at group level, with a financial statements including being satisfied that they give a request to report on any indications of noncompliance with true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is relevant laws and regulations irregularities in these areas, or necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements other areas directly identified by the component team.
that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of noncontinue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and related to going concern: and using the going concern basis regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no override of internal controls.
realistic alternative but to do so.
T he purpose of our audit work and to whom Auditors responsibilities we owe our responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from This report is made solely to the Companys members, material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level that we might state to the Companys members those matters of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Nicola Quayle Senior Statutory Auditor A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor FRCs website at www.
Chartered Accountants Irregularities ability to detect 1 St Peters Square We identified areas of laws and regulations that could Manchester reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the M2 3AE financial statements from our sector experience and through 22 May 2018 discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific area of the national minimum wage legislation.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107
