INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC OPINION BASIS FOR OPINION In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs and applicable law.
Our responsibilities Phoenix Group Holdings plcs consolidated financial under those standards are further described in the Auditors statements and parent company financial statements responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section theFinancial Statements give a true and fair view of ofour report below.
We are independent of the Group and parent thestate of the Groups and of the parent companys company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are affairsas at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including profitforthe year then ended: the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities the consolidated financial statements have been inaccordance with these requirements.
properlyprepared in accordance with International FinancialReporting Standards IFRSs as adopted We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is bytheEuropean Union EU : sufficientand appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the parent company financial statements have been properlyprepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted INDEPENDENCE bythe EU as applied in accordance with the provisions Further to our confirmation that we are independent of the Group ofthe Companies Act 2006: and and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements the financial statements have been prepared in accordance that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of public interest entities, we have specifically considered the the IAS Regulation.
impact of the acquisition of Standard Life Assurance Limited SLAL and other associated entities during the period on our We have audited the consolidated financial statements of independence.
Material business relationships and prescribed Phoenix Group Holdings plc and its subsidiaries collectively non-audit services with the acquired entities at the time of the the Group and the parent company financial statements acquisition were terminated within the provisions of the Ethical which comprise: Standard and appropriate safeguards were put in place.
These safeguards included the migration of our workplace Group Parent company pension scheme arrangement to a different provider.
The statement of consolidated The statement of changes in financial position as at 31 equity for the period then ended Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern December 2018 and viability statement The consolidated income The statement of financial position We have nothing to report in respect of the following statement for the year then ended as at 31 December 2018 information inthe Annual Report, in relation to which the The consolidated statement of The statement of cash flows for ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have comprehensive income for the the period then ended anythingmaterial to add or drawattention to: year then ended The statement of consolidated Related notes 1 to 17 to the the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 43 to cash flows for the year then financial statements 45that describe the principal risks and explain how they are ended being managed or mitigated: The statement of consolidated the Directors confirmation set out on page 110 in the Annual changes in equity for the year Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the then ended principal risks facing the entity, including those that would Related notes A1 to I8 to the threaten its business model, future performance, solvency consolidated financial statements or liquidity: except for note I3 which is the Directors statement set out on page 108 in the financial marked as unaudited, including statements about whether they considered it appropriate to asummary of significant adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, accounting policies and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve The financial reporting framework that has been applied in months from the date of approval of the financial statements: their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern European Union and, as regards the parent company financial required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained the Companies Act 2006. in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 46 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as towhether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as theyfall due over the period of their assessment, including anyrelated disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 112 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Valuation of insurance contract liabilities, comprising the following risk areas: actuarial assumptions: actuarial modelling: and data.
Valuation of certain complex and illiquid financial investments.
Accounting for the acquisition of SLAL and other associated entities.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the Group Function, Phoenix Life Division and SLAL and audit procedures on specific balances for Other Companies.
Our scope is explained further on pages 117 to 118.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for more than 99% of the equity and profit before tax of the Group.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 100 million 2017: 63 million which represents 1.9% 2017: 2% of total equity attributable to owners of the parent Group equity.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Risk Valuation of insurance contract liabilities 92.6bn: 2017: 45.4bn Refer to the Audit Committee Report pages 68 to 71 : Critical accounting estimates page 129 : Accounting policies and note F1 of the consolidated financial statements pages 166 to 168 We considered the valuation of insurance contract liabilities to be a significant risk for the Group.
Specifically, we considered the actuarial assumptions and modelling that are applied, as these involve complex and significant judgements about future events, both internal and external to the business for which small changes can result in a material impact to the resultant valuation.
Additionally, the valuation process is conditional upon the accuracy and completeness of the data.
We have split the risks relating to the valuation of insurance contract liabilities into the following component parts: actuarial assumptions: actuarial modelling: and data.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 113 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT CONTINUED We assessed managements analysis of movements in insurance contract liabilities over the year and obtained evidence to support large or unexpected movements.
This provided important audit evidence over the valuation of insurance contract liabilities.
Further additional audit procedures performed to respond to the specific risk areas are set out below: Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the Audit area to the risk Committee Actuarial assumptions To obtain sufficient audit evidence to conclude on the appropriateness We determined ofactuarial assumptions, we engaged our actuaries as part of our audit that the actuarial There has been no change in our identification of this teamand performed the following procedures: assumptions used riskfrom the prior year.
Whilst we consider the risks by management tobesimilar in nature, due to the increased account obtained an understanding and tested the design and operating are reasonable balancesfollowing the acquisition of Standard Life effectiveness of key controls over managements process for setting based on the Assurance Limited and other associated entities in andupdating actuarial assumptions: analysis of the theyear, we believethe identified risk to have a challenged and assessed whether the assumptions applied were experience highermagnitude ofpotential misstatement.
appropriate based on our knowledge of the Group, industry standards todate, industry andregulatory and financial reporting requirements: Economic assumptions are set by management taking practice and the reviewed the results of managements experience analysis to assess into account market conditions as at the valuation date.
financial and whether these justified the adopted assumptions, and checked that Non-economic assumptions such as future expenses, regulatory theassumptions used are consistent with this experience analysis: longevity and mortality are set based on the Groups requirements.
in respect of longevity improvements we have evaluated the use of pastexperience, market experience, market practice, thechosen industry standard Continuous Mortality Investigation In addition, we are regulations and expectations about future trends.
CMI model and the parameters used to validate that it was satisfied that the The assumptions that we consider to have the most appropriaterelative to the industry: disclosures made significant impact are the base and trend longevity benchmarked the demographic and economic assumptions against in the financial andpersistency assumptions.
thoseof other comparable industry participants: and statements are in These assumptions are used as inputs into a valuation reviewed and assessed whether the disclosures in the financial compliance with model which uses standard actuarial methodologies.
statements, relating to insurance contract liabilities, complied with the applicable theapplicable financial reporting standards.
We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in two components and specific scope audit procedures in one component, whichcovered 100% of the risk amount.
To conclude on core actuarial modelling systems, including balances We determined Actuarial modelling calculated outside these systems, we engaged our actuaries and that the models There has been no change in our identification of this performedthe following procedures: used are riskfrom the prior year.
Whilst we consider the risks appropriate and tobesimilar in nature, due to the increased account obtained an understanding of the process and tested the design, that changes to balances following the acquisition of Standard Life implementation and operating effectiveness of key controls over the models were Assurance Limited and other associated entities in managements process for testing and approval of model changes implemented theyear, we believethe identified risk to have a andkeyadjustments outside of the actuarial model during the year: asintended and highermagnitude ofpotential misstatement.
we challenged and evaluated the methodology, inputs and thatcontrols over assumptionsapplied for model changes and out of model We consider the integrity and appropriateness managements adjustments, ona sample basis, based on our knowledge of the ofmodelsto be critical to the overall valuation of processes Group, industry standards and regulatory and financial reporting insurancecontract liabilities.
formodelling requirements: insurance contract Over 88.0bn of the 92.6bn insurance contract reviewed the governance process around model changes and liabilitiesare modelled using the core actuarial modelling liabilities outside assessedthe completeness of identified model changes: and of the actuarial systems with the residual balance modelled outside assessed the results of the analysis of movements in insurance thesesystems to cater for any additional required modelling system contractliabilities in order to corroborate the completeness of were operating liabilitiesnot reflected in the model.
The key risk is modelchanges.
therefore associated with the modelling systems but effectively.
We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in two risksalso exist in the calculation of amounts outside components and specific scope audit procedures in one component, thesesystems.
whichcovered 100% of the risk amount.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 114 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the Audit area to the risk Committee Data To obtain sufficient audit evidence to assess the integrity of policyholder We determined datawe performed the following procedures: based on our There has been no change in our identification of this audit work that riskfrom the prior year.
Whilst we consider the risks obtained an understanding of the process and tested the design the data used tobesimilar in nature, due to the increased account andoperating effectiveness of key controls, including information forthe actuarial balancesfollowing the acquisition of Standard Life technology general controls, over managements data collection, model inputs Assurance Limited and other associated entities in extraction and validation process: ismaterially theyear, we believethe identified risk to have a for Outsourced Service Providers OSP where we have placed complete highermagnitude ofpotential misstatement.
relianceon the Service Organisation Controls SOC1 report, andaccurate.
wehavereviewed the SOC1 report and concluded on the design The policyholder data is a key input into the valuation effectiveness ofthe relevant controls: process.
The valuation of insurance contract liabilities for OSPs where we do not receive a SOC1 we have obtained an istherefore conditional upon the accuracy and understanding of the process and performed direct testing of the completeness of the data used.
operating effectiveness of the key controls: where we have not relied on controls at the OSP, or for policies administered internally, we have performed additional procedures including agreeing policyholder documentation tothe policyholder dataused in the actuarial model on a sample basis: assessed the integrity of policy level data, performing corroborative testingon i changes to static data during the period and ii unusual trendsand anomalies in the data.
We did this based upon our knowledgeof the Groups products, industry standards and throughusingadvanced data analytics: confirmed that the actuarial model data extracts provided by theOSPswere those used as an input to the actuarial model: assessed the appropriateness of managements grouping of dataforinputinto the actuarial model: and tested the reconciliations of premiums and claims information extractedfrom thepolicy adminstration systems to the general ledger, where applicable.
Valuation of certain complex and illiquid financial We engaged our valuation specialists and actuaries to test valuation of Based on our investments 2.5bn: 2017: 1.4bn ERMsand modelled corporate bonds.
procedures performed on We have refined our assessment of risk from the prior To obtain sufficient audit evidence to conclude on the valuation of ERMs, we: theERM and year, focussing on those investments with the highest tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls over modelled degree of judgement such as Equity Release Mortgages managements process in respect of the valuation of ERMs: corporate bonds, ERM.
In addition, following the acquisition of SLAL and tested the completeness and accuracy of the mortgage data used in we are satisfied other associated entities, we have identified heightened thevaluation model by agreeing a sample of new loans to supporting that the valuation risk on the Standard Life modelled corporate bonds due evidence and validating any movements on static data over the period: of these complex toa combination of size of these financial investments evaluated the methodology, inputs and assumptions used such as house and illiquid assets andlevel of judgement involved in valuation.
price inflation, residential house price volatility, longevity improvement and is reasonable.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report pages 68 to 71 : base mortality, as well as economic assumptions such as discount rate : In addition, we are Critical accounting estimates page 129 : Accounting we have validated the key assumptions by comparing them to satisfied that the policies and notes E1 and E2 of the consolidated publishedmarket benchmarks and demographic and economic disclosures made financialstatements pages 143 to 151. assumptions used by other industry participants, toconfirm that in the financial keyvaluation inputs were consistent with industry norms and our The extent of judgement applied by management in statements are in understanding of the instrument type: valuing the Groups financial investments varies with the compliance with assessed the reasonableness of the fair value of the mortgages nature of securities held, the markets in which they are the applicable atthereporting date including an assessment of the valuation traded and the valuation methodology applied.
financial reporting approach to the no-negative equity guarantee: and We performed additional audit procedures on the ERM standards.
reviewed that disclosures have been made in the financial statements financial investments and the Standard Life modelled regarding the sensitivity of the valuation of the ERMs to changes in the corporate bonds, such as private placements, which keyassumptions and audited the figures in the sensitivity disclosures.
require judgement to be applied and for which quoted market prices are not readily available and consequently To obtain sufficient audit evidence to conclude on the valuation of modelled where management usemodels and other inputs to corporate bonds, we: estimate their value.
tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls over managements process in respect of the valuation of modelled These investments are referred to as Level 3 assets corporatebonds: inthefinancial statements.
tested inputs in the models including coupons and maturity and  of assumptions and judgements in particularrelated to spread at the acquisition date: performed independent valuation of a sample of modelled corporate bonds and benchmarked managements valuation approach against market best practice: and reviewed that disclosures have been made in the financial statements regarding the sensitivity of the valuation of the modelled corporate bondsto changes in the key assumptions and audited the figures inthesensitivity disclosures.
We performed full scope audit procedures over this risk area in two components, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 115 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT CONTINUED Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the Audit area to the risk Committee Accounting for the acquisition of Standard Life To obtain sufficient audit evidence to assess the impact of the acquisition Based on our Assurance Limited and other associated entities ofthe Standard Life Assurance businesses, we: procedures performed on This is a new significant risk for the current year.
being the first year of our appointment as auditors of the Standard Life theacquisition Assurance businesses, performed review of the predecessor auditor Refer to the Audit Committee Report pages 68 to 71 : ofthe Standard working papers and discussed the significant risk and judgemental areas Critical accounting estimates page 130 : Accounting Life assurance with them: policies and notes G7 and H2 of the consolidated businesses, financialstatements pages 190 to 192 and pages agreed the key product features on a sample of products to underlying weare satisfied 195 to 197. policy terms documentations and reviewed the output of managements that, on an own model reviews in order to gain assurance that the actuarial models On 31 August 2018, the Group acquired SLAL, Standard overallbasis, appropriately capture the product features and that the calculations Life International Designated Activity Company, Standard thefair value of reflectthe approved business and reporting requirements: Life Assets and Employee Services Limited and other the assets and related entities collectively the Standard Life Assurance assessed the integrity of data used in the valuation process through liabilities acquired businesses from Standard Life Aberdeen plc SLA plc acombination of re-performance of key reconciliations and the use lies within a for total consideration of 2,994 million.
ofanalytic techniques to compare, on a sample basis, policy level data reasonable between data in the actuarial models and that contained within the rangeof what a We consider the identification and valuation of identifiable policyadministration systems: market participant intangible assets, such as acquired in-force business in an orderly audited the SLAL statement of financial position as at the date of AVIF and other intangibles, arising from the acquisition transaction of the Standard Life Assurance businesses to be a acquisition: wouldpay for the significant risk due to the nature of judgements and Ensured appropriate recognition of all identifiable intangible assets by identifiable assets estimates involved.
understanding the transaction and comparing it to other acquisitions and liabilities Under the Groups accounting policy, acquired value of ofsimilar businesses: andthere is a in-force insurance contracts is measured as the difference justification for assessed the methodology and assumptions adopted by management between the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice forcalculating the fair values of intangible assets arising on acquisition the gain on GAAP value of the insurance contract liabilities and acquisition.
andconsidered how market participants would value identifiable assets thedetermined fair value.
and liabilities in an orderly transaction: In addition, we As a result, we focused on significant judgements in considered whether any fair value adjustments are required in the aresatisfied that respect of the identification of the intangible assets insurance contract liabilities recognised on a best estimate basis the acquisition acquired, GAAP valuation of the SLAL insurance contract withintheacquired business, and assess any impact on the accounting and liabilities as at the date of acquisition, the fair value  and AVIF: disclosures are in adjustments required in the insurance contract liabilities compliance with ensured that the acquisition accounting and disclosure of the and their impact on the calculation of goodwill and AVIF the applicable acquisitionare in compliance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations: and and the valuation of an intangible asset relating to the accounting Client Service and Proposition Agreement CSPA read relevant agreements and board minutes which supported the framework.
entered into between the Group and SLA plc.
finalconclusions in respect of the acquisition accounting.
The primary elements of the valuation exercise assessed the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets in the form of AVIF 2,931 million and a separately identifiable intangible asset of 36 million relating to the CSPA, both gross of tax.
This resulted in a gain on acquisition of 141 million that was recognised in the consolidated income statement forthe year ended 31 December 2018, reflecting the excess of the fair value of the net assets acquired over the consideration paid for the acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 116 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each reporting unit reporting component within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into Phoenix Life account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and Division full scope 45% effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business SLAL full scope 33% EQUITY environment and other factors when assessing the level of Group Function full scope 15% work to be performed at each reporting component.
Other Companies specic scope 6% In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Out of scope 1% consolidated financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we identified four reporting components of the Group.
The Group reporting components consist of Phoenix Life Division, SLAL, the Group Function and Other Companies.
In the Phoenix Life Division component, the most significant insurance companies are Phoenix Life Assurance Phoenix Life Division full scope 44% Limited and Phoenix Life Limited.
SLAL is a newly acquired SLAL full scope 28% subsidiary of the Group.
The Group Function consists of Group PROFIT Group Function BEFORE TAX entities that primarily hold external debt, PA GI Limited and full scope 25% the pension schemes of the Group.
The Other Companies Other Companies include the Phoenix Life service companies and Standard Life specic scope 2% International Designated Activity Company SL Intl.
Out of scope 1% Details of the four reporting components which were audited by component teams are set out below: Component Scope Auditor Changes from the prior year Phoenix Life Division Full EY In prior year, we identified Abbey Life Assurance Company Limited Standard Life Assurance Limited Full EY ALAC as a separate component of the Group.
In the 2018 SLAL financial year, management completed the Part VII transfer of the Group Function Full EY ongoing insurance business of ALAC into Phoenix Life Division and at 31 December 2018 ALAC is no longer a separate identifiable Other Companies Specific EY component of the Group.
SLAL is a new component of the Group in 2018 following the Of the four components selected, we performed an audit acquisition completed on 31 August 2018.
Due to the size and ofthe complete financial information of three components riskinherent in the component, we have designated it as a full full scope components which were selected based on scope component.
SL Intl, acquired as part of the Standard theirsize or risk characteristics.
For the remaining Other Life Assurance businesses, is within the Other Companies Companies specific scope components, we performed component and is designated as a specific scope component.
audit procedures on specific accounts of Phoenix Life service companies provisions, accruals and deferred income, wages Involvement with component teams and salaries and administrative expenses and of SL Intl cashand cash equivalents and insurance contract liabilities.
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each The reporting components where we performed audit of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, procedures accounted for more than 99% 2017: 99% of or by component auditors from other EY global network firms theGroups equity and the Groups profit before tax.
For the operating under our instruction.
current year, the full scope components contributed 93% 2017: 98% of the Groups equity and 97% 2017: 99% of The primary audit team provided detailed audit instructions to the theGroups profit before tax.
The specific scope component component teams which included guidance on areas of focus, contributed 6% 2017: 2% of the Groups equity and 2% including the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed 2017: 1% of the Groups profit before tax.
The audit scope above, and set out the information required to be reported to ofthese components may not have included testing of theprimary audit team.
allsignificant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested Of the three full scope components, audit procedures were forthe Group.
performed on one of these directly by the primary audit team whilst the remaining two components were audited by the component audit teams.
For Other Companies, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 117 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT CONTINUED The primary audit team followed a programme of planned visits During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor materiality and concluded that materiality assessed at planning visited each of the components where the Group audit scope was stages of our audit remained appropriate.
focused at least once every year and the most significant of them more than once a year.
For all full scope components, in addition to Performance materiality the component visits, the primary audit team reviewed key The application of materiality at the individual account or balance working papers and participated in the component teams level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low planning, including the component teams discussion of fraud and level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and error.
The primary audit team attended the closing meetings with undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
the management of the Phoenix Life Division and SLAL and attended key Audit Committee meetings at the components.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our For the specific scope component, the primary audit team have judgement was that performance materiality was 50% reviewed the audit procedures performed by the component team 2017: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 50 million on the specific accounts.
The work performed on the components, together with the Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is appropriate evidence for our opinion on the consolidated financial undertaken based on a percentage of total performance statements as a whole.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the We apply the concept of materiality in planning and risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified range of performance materiality allocated to components was misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
10 million to 28 million 2017: 6 million to 24 million.
Materiality Reporting threshold The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, An amount below which identified misstatements are individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected considered as being clearly trivial.
to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 5 million 2017: 3 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as We determined materiality for the Group to be 100 million well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, 2017: 63 million, which is 1.9% 2017: 2% of Group equity.
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
In the current year we considered profit-based measures for materiality given that the Standard Life Assurance business We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the changed the business mix of the Group to include a greater quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in proportion of open business.
Whilst profit before tax or light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming operating profit are common bases used across the life our opinion.
insurance industry and might be an appropriate measure for an open business, we believe that the use of equity as the basis OTHER INFORMATION for assessing materiality remains more appropriate given that The other information comprises the information included in the Group remains primarily a closed life assurance consolidator the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 110, other than the and as such equity provides a more stable, long-term measure financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
We note also that equity more closely correlates with The Directors are responsible for the other information.
key Group performance metrics such as Solvency II capital requirements and Own Funds.
However, as these measures Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the are non-GAAP measures, we consider equity to be other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly most appropriate.
stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
The parent company was incorporated in 2018 under the UK Companies Act 2006 and is domiciled in England and Wales.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, The financial statements for the period ended 31 December ourresponsibility is to read the other information and, in 2018 are the first set of financial statements prepared by the doingso, consider whether the other information is materially parent company.
Accordingly, there is no comparative inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge information to disclose in the individual financial statements of obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially the parent company.
We determined materiality for the parent misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or company to be 82 million, which is 2% of the parent company apparent material misstatements, we are required to equity attributable to owners.
We have used a capital based determine whether there is a material misstatement in the measure for determining materiality for consistency with the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other approach taken for the Group where we consider equity to be information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we the most appropriate basis when considering against other conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other measures such as IFRS profit before tax with its inherent information, we are required to report that fact.
volatility considering the nature of the parent company as a holding company.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 118 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS responsibility to specifically address the following items in the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors other information and to report as uncorrected material Responsibilities set out on page 110, the Directors are misstatements of the other information where we conclude responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and that those items meet the following conditions: for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 110 the to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free statement given by the Directors that they consider the from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups responsible for assessing the Group and parent companys performance, business model and strategy, is materially ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either Audit committee reporting set out on pages 68 to 71 the intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to section describing the work of the audit committee does not cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate financialstatements Governance Code set out on page 109 the parts of the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether Directors statement required under the Listing Rules the financial statements as a whole are free from material relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and toissue an Governance Code containing provisions specified for review auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do is a high level of assurance, but is not aguarantee that an audit not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a the UK Corporate Governance Code.
material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence COMPANIES ACT 2006 the economic decisions ofusers taken on the basis of these In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report financial statements.
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of The objectives of our audit: the audit: in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks the information given in the Strategic Report and the ofmaterial misstatement of the financial statements due Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial tofraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence statements are prepared is consistent with the financial regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due statements: and to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, theprimary responsibility for the prevention and detection MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT offraud rests with both those charged with governance BY EXCEPTION ofthe entity and management: and In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group in respect of irregularities, considered to be non-compliancewith and the parent company and its environment obtained in the laws and regulations, are to obtain sufficient appropriate audit course of the audit, we have not identified material evidence regarding compliance with the provisions of those laws misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
and regulations generally recognised to have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters financial statements direct laws and regulations, and perform in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to other audit procedures to help identify instances of nonreport to you if, in our opinion: compliance with other laws and regulations that may have a material effect on the financial statements.
We are not adequate accounting records have not been kept by the responsible for preventing non-compliance with laws and parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not regulations and our audit procedures cannot be expected to been received from branches not visited by us: or detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 119 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT CONTINUED Our approach was as follows: Other matters we are required to address Following the completion of the on-shoring exercise and We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory theincorporation of Phoenix Group Holdings plc, we were frameworks that are applicable to the company and its appointed by the Company Directors on 13 December 2018 subsidiaries and determined that the relevant laws and and signed an engagement letter on 20 February 2019 to regulations related to elements of company law and tax audit the financial statements for the period ending legislation, and the financial reporting framework.
31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
Our considerations of other laws and regulations that may The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical havea material effect on the financial statements included Standard were not provided to the group or the parent permissions and supervisory requirements of the Prudential company and we remain independent of the group and Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct theparent company in conducting the audit.
Authority FCA and UK Listing Authority UKLA.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report We obtained a general understanding of how Phoenix Group tothe audit committee.
Holdings is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management and those responsible for legal USE OF OUR REPORT andcompliance matters.
We also reviewed correspondence This report is made solely to the Companys members, between the Company and UK regulatory bodies: reviewed asabody, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the minutes of the Board and Executive Committee: and Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken  of the Companys approach to sothat we might state to the Companys members those governance, demonstrated by the Boards approval of matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report theCompanys governance framework.
To the fullest extent permitted by For direct laws and regulations, we considered the extent law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone ofcompliance with those laws and regulations as part of other than the company and the companys members as a ourprocedures on the related financial statement items.
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions For both direct and other laws and regulations, our procedures wehave formed.
involved: making enquiry of those charged with governance and senior management for their awareness of any noncompliance of laws or regulations, inquiring about the policies that have been established to prevent non-compliance with laws and regulations by officers and employees, inquiring about the companys methods of enforcing and monitoring compliance with such policies, inspecting significant ED JERVIS SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR correspondence with the FCA and PRA.
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, The Company operates in the insurance industry which is a STATUTORY AUDITOR highly regulated environment.
As such the Senior Statutory London Auditor considered the experience and expertise of the engagement team to ensure that the team had the 4 March 2019 appropriate competence and capabilities, which included theuse of specialists where appropriate.
We assessed the susceptibility of the consolidated financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the controls that the Company has established to address risks identified by the entity, orthat otherwise seek to prevent, deter or detect fraud.
Wealso considered areas of significant judgement, includingcomplex transactions, performance targets, external pressures and the impact these have on the control environment.
Where this risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk valuation of insurance contract liabilities.
These procedures included testing manual journals and weredesigned to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
Thisdescription forms part of our auditors report.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 120 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
