122 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Playtech Plc Opinion Revenue recognition with reference to Note 2 We have audited the financial statements of Playtech Plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Key audit matter Our response Equity, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows, and notes to the The Group has a number of revenue streams.
The details of the We assessed the design and implementation of the controls over the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
accounting policies applied during the period are given in note 2 to Groups revenue cycles.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable by law and International Financial Reporting Standards We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions Management make certain judgements around revenue recognition by the Group comply with IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and Industry of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006. standard, including critically challenging the areas of impact in respect and the treatment of contractual arrangements for revenue streams entered into by both the Gaming and Financials divisions.
There is of the adoption of IFRS 15 based on our knowledge of the revenue In our opinion the financial statements: streams of the Group and analysis provided.
a potential risk that revenue is recorded incorrectly from a timing perspective, that it is inappropriately recognised on a gross versus net give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit We focussed on revenue arising in Snaitech Gaming B2C segment in for the year then ended: basis and that the fair value of open bets and trading positions are not the year given this new revenue stream and significant operation.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: differences were found between local and group policies in respect of This is the first period of adoption for IFRS 15 Revenue from revenue recognition.
As noted within the analysis of the components the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union contracts with customers.
Management have prepared an analysis of of the group audit, following the mid-year acquisition, Snaitech has and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006. the impact of the new standard and considered revenues on a product been audited by a non-BDO member firm for the 2018 year end.
There is risk that management have not identified or Revenue of Snaitech has been audited primarily through testing the Basis for opinion accounted for all changes required as a result of IFRS 15. effectiveness of the relevant key controls.
As group auditor we have We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under directed the scope and approach of this testing and reviewed the those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial We tested other Group revenue through substantive procedures.
statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical Our work included the use of IT audit data analytic techniques responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to to underpin our substantive testing of the revenue recognised provide a basis for our opinion.
by both the Gaming and Financials Divisions.
We also reviewed a sample of key contracts entered into during the year to assess Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement whether the revenue had been recognised in accordance with the We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you Groups accounting policy, appropriately from a timing perspective whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: and whether any other terms within the contract had any material accounting or disclosure implications.
the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 68 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 113 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing Impairment of Goodwill, capitalised development costs and other intangibles with reference to Note 12 the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: Key audit matter Our response the directors statement set out on page 113 in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going In accordance with IAS 36, the Group monitors the carrying value We reviewed managements CGU analysis for the year end and concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the group and of goodwill and other intangibles for indications of impairment.
The critically challenged the allocation by CGU with management based on the parent companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or Group performs annual impairment reviews for all cash generating our knowledge and understanding of the Group.
We considered the units CGU and for capitalised development costs relating to projects allocation of business acquisitions to existing CGUs, and the creation the directors explanation set out on page 113 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period not launched as at the year end.
We confirmed there were no changes to existing CGU they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation allocations in the year.
that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any Impairment reviews require significant judgement from management and related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
are inherently based on assumptions in respect of future profitability.
The audit team, which includes valuation specialists, challenged the appropriateness of the key assumptions used in the discounted cash Key audit matters IAS 36 also requires management to test intangible assets not yet flow models prepared by management and applied sensitivities to available for use such as projects in development for impairment.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the assess the potential impairment of goodwill and those assets where current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These indications of impairment were present.
Our work was principally If the carrying value of these assets exceeds their recoverable matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts based on our assessment of the historical accuracy of the Groups amount there is a risk of material misstatement in the carrying of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our estimates in previous periods, our understanding of the commercial value of these assets.
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
prospects of the assets, identification and analysis of changes in assumptions from prior periods and an assessment of the consistency of assumptions across the impairment reviews.
In respect of capitalised development costs, we selected a sample of projects not yet launched at the balance sheet date and confirmed that there remains a future intent to launch, based on the expectations of the developer team and forecast launch date.
Further to this we reviewed the results of managements impairment review of these assets on a portfolio basis, including the consideration of the contribution the portfolio generated in the year.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosure provided in the Group financial statements.
124 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT cont.
Level of materiality applied and rationale Compliance risk Legal, regulatory and taxation with reference to Notes 3 and 31 We considered Adjusted Profit Before Tax to be the most appropriate performance measure for the basis of materiality in respect of the audit of the Group as this measure reflects the Groups profitability excluding the impact of certain non-recurring items.
Key audit matter Our response The Group has compliance obligations that range from administration We considered how the Group monitors legal and regulatory Adjusted Profit Before Tax is calculated for this purpose as Profit Before Tax 183.4m adjusted for the following items: gain on sale of equity of their licences to assessing the impact of changes in country-specific developments and their assessment of the potential impact on the investments 65.6m : one off professional and finance costs on the acquisition of Snaitech S. p. A 20.3m.
Using this benchmark, we set and pan-regional rules and regulations on its businesses.
We discussed with Management how they manage, control materiality at 6.9m 2017: 8.5m being 5% of Adjusted Profit Before Tax 2017: 5% of Adjusted Profit Before Tax.
Our materiality level was and operate Group companies in the countries in which they are reduced from the previous year as a result of the reduction in Profit Before Tax.
The nature of the e-commerce business and operational structure registered.
This included how the Group manages its tax strategy as of the Playtech Group requires Management judgement with regard to Materiality in respect of the audit of the Parent Company was set at 1.7m 2017: 4.3m using a benchmark of 2% of total assets, limited to 25% part of the overall business planning and how the Group monitors the the assessment and interpretation of domestic and international of Group materiality 2016: 2% of total assets, limited to 50% of Group materiality.
We considered total assets to be the most appropriate measure rules and practices governing the taxation of e-commerce activity that tax laws.
The taxation of e-commerce is still an evolving matter for for the basis of materiality as the Parent Company is primarily an investment holding company.
is evolving in many countries.
Performance materiality was set at 70% of materiality for both the Group and Parent Company audits.
In setting the level of performance materiality We discussed with the Groups Compliance and Legal teams whether As part of the acquisition of Snaitech, the Group have inherited we considered a number of factors including the expected total value of known and likely misstatements based on past experience and other there were any known instances of material breaches in regulatory a number of historical legal matters see note 23.
Management factors, the control environment, and Managements attitude towards proposed adjustments.
and licence compliance that required disclosure or required provisions considered whether any provisions or disclosures are required to be made in the financial statements and we considered the level of Component materiality under IFRS for outstanding legal and regulatory disputes based on provisions recorded.
We discussed the assertions of the Groups Legal We set materiality for each component of the Group based on a percentage of materiality dependent on the size and our assessment of the risk Managements best estimate of where there is a probable outflow of team with the Groups principal external legal advisor, with no material of material misstatement of that component.
Component materiality ranged from 1.4m to 3.9m.
Where the Group does not consider the likelihood issues arising.
of a provision being probable, the Group will disclose the existence of Agreement with the Audit Committee a contingent liability unless that likelihood of occurrence is considered As part of the audit team, we involved tax specialists who reviewed We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences individually in excess of 250k 2016:340k.
to be remote when no disclosure is required.
and evaluated the risks in the jurisdictions in which Playtech has a We also agreed to report differences below these thresholds that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
As part of this process we liaised with Given the continual changes in the regulatory environment of the the local audit teams and tax specialists in those jurisdictions to assess An overview of the scope of our audit gambling and financial trading sectors in many countries across the the provisioning for current and deferred taxes.
world, there is a risk that potential material legal, regulatory or taxation Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including the Groups system of internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements at the Group level.
matters are not disclosed or provided for.
We reviewed disclosures prepared by the Group in respect of judgements and estimates, provisions and contingent liabilities.
In determining the scope of our audit we considered the level of work to be performed at each component in order to ensure sufficient assurance was gained to allow us to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group as a whole.
Business combinations with reference to Notes 26 and 27 We tailored the extent of the work to be performed at each component, either by us, as the Group audit team, component auditors within the Key audit matter Our response BDO network or non-BDO member firms based on our assessment of the risk of material misstatement at each component.
The Group completed the following principal acquisitions in the year: In conjunction with our internal valuation specialists, we considered and challenged the assumptions underpinning the significant We have obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the Group as a whole which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of Snaitech material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
judgements and estimates used by Management and Managements experts in the assessment of the fair values of the assets and liabilities Management are required to make significant judgements in assessing We consider that the audit procedures we planned and performed in accordance with ISAs UK have provided us with reasonable assurance acquired and consideration paid.
This challenge included the the fair values of consideration including contingent consideration that irregularities, including fraud, would have been detected to the extent that they could have resulted in material misstatements in the completeness of intangibles identified.
whether arising on acquisitions made in the current year or previous financial statements.
Our audit was not designed to identify misstatements or other irregularities that would not be considered to be material years and of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Management have We reviewed and evaluated the property valuations prepared to the financial statements.
engaged external valuations experts to undertake the purchase price as part of the acquisition of Snaitech, including discussions directly Classification of components allocation exercise required.
Of the 4 full scope components that are considered significant defined as those that were greater than 15% of Adjusted Profit Before Tax, or where In respect of acquisitions in previous years significant contingent the risks of the component were significantly different to the Group risks, 3 were audited by the Group audit team and 1 by a component auditor We challenged managements assessment of the fair value of consideration has been included within the consideration payable.
The Group audit team attended key meetings, directed the scope and approach of the audit, and performed a detailed contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions made in the The fair value of contingent consideration is reassessed at each review of the audit files.
current year and previous periods, including principally the level of reporting date.
For the 18 components not considered significant, the component auditors were asked to perform review procedures or specific scope procedures on certain balances based on their relative size, risks in the business and our knowledge of those entities appropriate to respond to the risk of material misstatement.
Changes in key audit matters from the prior year audit There have been no changes to the key audit matters identified as part of our audit when compared to the prior year report.
Review and specific scope procedures were performed by the Group audit team or BDO network firms on 17 reporting components and by 1 non-BDO member firms on a further 1 reporting components.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements.
For planning, we consider materiality to be the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, could influence the economic decisions of reasonable users that are taken on the basis of the financial statements.
In order to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that any misstatements exceed materiality, we use a lower materiality level, performance materiality, to determine the extent of testing needed.
Importantly, misstatements below these levels will not necessarily be evaluated as immaterial as we also take account of the nature of identified misstatements, and the particular circumstances of their occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the financial statements as a whole.
126 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT cont.
Summary audit scope Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: Adjusted www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Revenue Total Assets EBITDA Other matters Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and we note that a resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as the Companys auditors will be submitted to the shareholders at this years AGM.
The period of our total uninterrupted engagement as the Groups auditors is 14 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2005 to 31 December 2018.
Full audit: 97.1% Full audit: 94.1% Full audit: 89.5% The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain independent of the group and the parent company in conducting our audit.
Specic procedures: Specic procedures: 3.1% Specic procedures: 7.8% Group level procedures: 2.9% Group level procedures: 2.8% Group level procedures: 2.7% Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
Based on the above scope we were able to conclude that sufficient and appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis to form our Use of our report opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
This report is made solely to the parent companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 80C of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the parent companys members those matters we are required to state to them in Other information an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
the parent company and the parent companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially Dominic Stammers inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify For and on behalf of BDO LLP such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the London, United Kingdom financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
20 February 2019 We have nothing to report in this regard.
BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 112 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on page 94 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 113 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Directors Remuneration Report The parent company voluntarily prepares a Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
The directors have requested that we audit the part of the Directors Remuneration Report specified by the Companies Act 2006 to be audited as if the company were a UK Registered listed company.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 112 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
