INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLYPIPE GROUP PLC OPINION In our opinion: } Polypipe Group plcs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: } the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: } the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and } the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Polypipe Group plc which comprise: Group Parent company Group Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 Company Balance Sheet at 31 December 2018 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 December 2018 31 December 2018 Group Balance Sheet at 31 December 2018 Company Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended Notes 1 to 9 to the Company Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 31 December 2018 Group Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 Notes 1 to 30 to the Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report and Accounts, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: } the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts set out on pages 42 to 49 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: } the Directors confirmation set out on page 74 in the Annual Report and Accounts that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: } the Directors statement set out on page 74 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: } whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or 106 OUR FINANCIALS } the Directors explanation set out on page 74 in the Annual Report and Accounts as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters } Revenue recognition and recognition of customer rebates. }
Audit scope } We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 11 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further three components. }
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 100% of Profit Before Tax, 100% of Revenue and 100% of Total Assets.
Materiality } Overall Group materiality of 2.9m 2017: 3.1m which represents 5% of Profit Before Tax.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In the prior year we identified revenue recognition and recognition of customer rebates as key audit matters.
This year we have added acquisition accounting as a result of the acquisitions made by the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 107 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLYPIPE GROUP PLC Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Revenue recognition and recognition of customer rebates Refer to the Report of the Audit For six of the components of the Group representing We have concluded that revenue Committee page 72 : Summary of 84% of the Groups revenues we performed is appropriately recognised in the Significant Accounting Policies pages 120 procedures using EY bespoke data analytics tools to correct accounting period and found to 121 : and Note 3.2 to the consolidated test the appropriateness of journal entries recorded in no evidence of management bias.
financial statements page 128. the general ledger by correlating sales postings with We have concluded that the cash receipts throughout the year.
For the remaining The Group has reported revenue of customer rebates expense and components we performed tests of detail over 433.2m 2017: 411.7m.
Revenue is liability are appropriately recognised revenue in the year, by agreeing a sample of sales to stated net of rebates payable.
and that amounts estimated are supporting documentation.
The timing of revenue recognition is We tested the accuracy of revenue cut-off around relevant to the reported performance the year end.
Our work comprised the agreement of of the Group as a whole and also to sales transactions from either side of the year end to the completeness of rebate expense supporting documentation.
and related year end liabilities.
There is opportunity for management to misstate We assessed for evidence of management bias by the recording of revenue between periods testing material manual journals either side of the in order to influence reported results.
year end and agreeing to supporting evidence.
The Groups pricing structure includes We tested the appropriateness of rebate provision rebate arrangements with customers, calculations by agreeing a sample of amounts some of which involve estimation when recognised to terms of agreements and other determining the amount of rebate to be supporting documents.
This is particularly the case We assessed the indirect rebate expense by reference for indirect rebates where the Group is to external information sources to determine the reliant on information from customers reasonableness of amounts to be recognised.
which may not be available at the time the liabilities are recognised.
We compared year end customer rebate provisions and rebate costs in the year to prior year amounts There has been no change in our and expectations to identify unusual trends.
assessment of this risk when compared to the prior year.
We compared a sample of rebate payments made in the year with amounts provided at 31 December 2017 which gave us assurance over the accuracy of amounts previously provided.
We assessed the completeness of rebate amounts recognised by reference to post year end payments and by obtaining satisfactory explanations where rebates had not been recognised for significant customers or for customers where rebates had been recognised in prior years.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in all locations, which covered 100% of the risk amounts.
108 OUR FINANCIALS Acquisition accounting Refer to the Report of the Audit We verified that the allocation of the purchase price We have concluded that accounting Committee page 72 : Summary of and the recognition of intangible assets was in for acquisitions has been performed Significant Accounting Policies page accordance with IFRS 3, paying particular attention to in line with IFRS 3 and that the 122 : and Note 3.1 to the consolidated complex areas such as fair values of intangible assets.
acquisitions have been appropriately financial statements page 128. disclosed.
We assessed whether the intangible assets that had During the year the Group made two been identified were complete, and whether the business acquisitions.
The accounting for assigned useful economic lives of these assets were acquisitions, including the allocation of appropriate.
the purchase price and the recognition of We validated the fair value calculations prepared intangible assets and goodwill is required by management and its advisers with reference to to be performed in accordance with IFRS source inputs and assessed the reasonableness of 3, Business Combinations.
judgement and is a subjective area.
We obtained and read the share purchase agreements Specifically, the valuation of intangible SPAs relating to the acquisitions in the year, and assets requires the identification of vouched the consideration paid to supporting separately identifiable intangible assets documentation.
acquired, the estimation of future cash flows and the selection of appropriate We reviewed the SPAs for any earn-out and rates to be used for discounting.
contingent consideration clauses and assessed managements estimates of any related liabilities The identification of these intangible considering whether they were appropriately classified assets results in an equivalent reduction as either consideration or remuneration.
in the amount recognised as goodwill, and the other intangible assets give We vouched significant acquisition costs to rise to an amortisation charge that, in supporting documentation and ensured that they had accordance with the Groups policy, been appropriately expensed.
is disclosed separately in the income statement as a non-underlying item.
We confirmed that the necessary disclosures had been made in the financial statements, and The amounts recognised as intangible considered the impact of acquisitions in the year on assets in the year were 23.3m of segmental disclosures.
goodwill and 28.0m of other intangible assets.
A contingent consideration We performed full audit procedures over this liability of 1.7m has also been risk area in the Group, which covered 100% of recognised in the year.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 14 reporting components of the Group, we selected all 14 components covering entities within the UK, Italy and the United Arab Emirates which represent the principal business units within the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 109 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLYPIPE GROUP PLC Of the 14 components selected, we performed an audit of the process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed complete financial information of 11 components full scope at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the components which were selected based on their size or risk Group financial statements.
For the remaining three components specific scope OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the within that component that we considered had the potential for the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements audit and in forming our audit opinion.
either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
Materiality The reporting components where we performed audit procedures The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually accounted for 100% 2017: 100% of the Groups Profit Before Tax, or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence 100% 2017: 100% of the Groups Revenue and 100% 2017: the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
100% of the Groups Total Assets.
For the current year, the full Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of scope components contributed 99% 2017: 100% of the Groups our audit procedures.
Profit Before Tax, 95% 2017: 100% of the Groups Revenue and 98% 2017: 100% of the Groups Total Assets.
The specific scope We determined materiality for the Group to be 2.9m 2017: component contributed 1% 2017: 0% of the Groups Profit Before 3.1m, which is 5% 2017: 5% of Profit Before Tax excluding nonTax, 5% 2017: 0% of the Groups Revenue and 2% 2017: 0% of underlying items other than amortisation of intangible assets.
We the Groups Total Assets.
The audit scope of these components may believe that Profit Before Tax excluding non-underlying items other not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component.
than amortisation of intangible assets provides us with the most Changes from the prior year relevant measure of Group profitability.
In the prior year, our coverage from full scope audits was 100% of We determined materiality for the parent company to be 2.2m the Groups Profit Before Tax, Revenue and Total Assets.
The specific 2017: 2.3m, which is 1% 2017: 1% of Total Equity.
scope components in the current year were Polypipe France Holding SAS, which was sold on 29 March 2018, Manthorpe Building Products Holdings Limited, which was acquired on 25 October 2018, Reported profit Before Tax of 58.2m and Permavoid Limited, which was acquired on 31 August 2018.
As Starting basis all three of these components were not part of the Group for the full year to 31 December 2018, it was deemed reasonable, due to size Add discontinued profit Before Tax of 0.3m and risk, that these entities would be assigned a specific scope only.
Adjustments Involvement with component teams Totals 58.5m In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we Materiality of 2.9m 5% of materiality basis determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each Materiality of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 11 full scope components, Performance materiality audit procedures were performed on nine of these directly by the The application of materiality at the individual account or balance primary audit team.
For the two full scope components, where level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine misstatements exceeds materiality.
that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was During the current years audit cycle, a visit was undertaken by the that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our primary audit team to the component team in Italy.
This visit involved planning materiality, namely 2.2m 2017: 2.3m.
We have set discussing the audit approach with the component team and any performance materiality at this percentage due to the history of few issues arising from their work and meeting with local management.
misstatements indicating a lower risk of material misstatement in the Subsequently, the primary audit team participated in the closing financial statements.
meeting and reviewed key audit working papers on risk areas.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit 110 OUR FINANCIALS Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining We have nothing to report in this regard.
audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other The performance materiality set for each component is based on the information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole the other information where we conclude that those items meet the and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
following conditions: In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.4m to 2.2m 2017: 0.5m to 2.3m. }
Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 62 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Reporting threshold Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as and understandable and provides the information necessary for being clearly trivial.
shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them obtained in the audit: or all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.1m 2017: 0.2m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences } Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 70 to 73 the below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not qualitative grounds.
appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the } Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of Governance Code set out on page 60 the parts of the other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to OTHER INFORMATION the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in The other information comprises the information included in the accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose Annual Report and Accounts set out on pages 01 to 104, other a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Directors are responsible for the other information.
OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other COMPANIES ACT 2006 information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our Companies Act 2006. responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent the audit: with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify } the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other those reports have been prepared in accordance with applicable information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude legal requirements: that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we } the information about internal control and risk management are required to report that fact.
systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and } information about the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 111 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF POLYPIPE GROUP PLC MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE REPORT BY EXCEPTION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in: whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level } the Strategic Report or the Directors Report: or of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in } the information about internal control and risk management accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
5 considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could and 7.2.
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in EXPLANATION AS TO WHAT EXTENT THE AUDIT WAS relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, you if, in our opinion: INCLUDING FRAUD } adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements received from branches not visited by us: or due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, } the parent company financial statements and the part of through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during agreement with the accounting records and returns: or the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and } certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of are not made: or the entity and management. }
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Our approach was as follows: } a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by } We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory the Company.
frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statements that relate to the reporting framework IFRSs as adopted by set out on pages 79 and 157, the Directors are responsible for the European Union, the Companies Act 2006 and the UK the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control regulations in the UK.
as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, } We understood how Polypipe Group plc is complying with whether due to fraud or error.
those frameworks by making enquiries of management and those responsible for legal and compliance.
We corroborated In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible our enquiries through our review of Board minutes and papers for assessing the Group and parent companys ability to continue as provided to the Audit Committee.
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going } We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur.
Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company } Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud and error.
112 OUR FINANCIALS A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
OTHER MATTERS WE ARE REQUIRED TO ADDRESS } We were appointed by the Company in 2012 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is seven years, covering the years ended 31 December 2012 to 31 December 2018. }
Other than our review of the Groups interim results for the period ended June 2018 and some audit related reporting work relating to Polypipe France prior to its disposal, no non-audit services were provided to the Group or the parent company.
Therefore, no non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were provided to the Group or the parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the parent company in conducting the audit. }
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Christabel Cowling Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor Leeds 19 March 2019 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Polypipe Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 113 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
