Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 78 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the Members of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Independent auditors report to the members of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 1.
OUR OPINION IS UNMODIFIED 7 September 2017.
The period of total uninterrupted We have audited the financial statements of Polar engagement is for the financial year ended 30 April Capital Technology Trust plc the Company for 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities the year ended 30 April 2018 which comprise the under, and we remain independent of the Company in Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement accordance with, UK ethical requirements including of Changes in Equity, Balance Sheet, Cash flow the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public Statement, and the related notes, including the interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by accounting policies in note 2. that standard were provided.
In our opinion the financial statements: Overview the financial statements give a true and fair Materiality: financial statements 16m view of the state of the Companys affairs as as a whole at 30 April 2018 and of its profit for the year 1% of Total Assets then ended: Risk of material misstatement have been properly prepared in accordance Recurring risks Carrying amount of with International Financial Reporting quoted investments Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 79 2.
KEY AUDIT MATTER: OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT A key audit matter is one that, in our professional judgment, is of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and includes the most significant assessed risk of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matter in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address this matter and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
This matter was addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on this matter.
The risk Our response Carrying amount of Low risk, high value Our procedures included: quoted investments The Companys portfolio of quoted Tests of detail: Agreeing the valuation of 1,491m: 2017: investments makes up 93% of the 100 per cent of quoted investments in the 1,220m Companys total assets by value and is portfolio to externally quoted prices: and considered to be one of the key drivers of Refer to page 69 Enquiry of custodians: Agreeing 100 per results.
We do not consider these Audit Committee cent of investment holdings in the portfolio investments to be at a high risk of Report, page 90 to independently received third party significant misstatement, or to be subject accounting policy confirmations from investment custodians.
to a significant level of judgement and page 97 Our results because they comprise liquid, quoted financial investments.
However, due to their disclosures We found the carrying amount of quoted materiality in the context of the financial investments to be acceptable.
statements as a whole, they are considered to be one of the areas which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and completing our audit.
O UR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF 1,605 m 2017: 1,305m 16m OUR AUDIT Materiality for the financial statements as a whole 16m was set at 16m, determined with reference to a Whole financial benchmark of total assets, of which, it represents 1%.
statements We reported to the Audit Committee any materiality uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 800,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
0.8m Our audit of the company was undertaken to the materiality level specified above and was Total Assets Misstatements performed at the administrator, HSBC Securities Materiality reported to the Services, in Edinburgh.
audit committee Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 80 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED to the Members of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 4.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON Di sclosures of principal risks and longerGOING CONCERN term viability We are required to report to you if: Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing we have anything material to add or draw attention material to add or draw attention to in relation to: to in relation to the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements on the use of the going th e Directors confirmation within the longerconcern basis of accounting with no material term viability statement on pages 46 and 47 that uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over they have carried out a robust assessment of the Companys use of that basis for a period of at least principal risks facing the company, including twelve months from the date of approval of the those that would threaten its business model, financial statements: or future performance, solvency and liquidity: if the related statement under the Listing Rules th e principal business risks and uncertainties set out on page 48 is materially inconsistent with disclosures describing these risks and our audit knowledge.
explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and We have nothing to report in these respects.
the directors explanation in the longer-term 5.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they THE OTHER INFORMATION IN THE have done so and why they considered that period ANNUAL REPORT to be appropriate, and their statement as to The directors are responsible for the other whether they have a reasonable expectation that information presented in the Annual Report the Company will be able to continue in operation together with the financial statements.
Our opinion and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the on the financial statements does not cover the other period of their assessment, including any related information and, accordingly, we do not express an disclosures drawing attention to any necessary audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, qualifications or assumptions.
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the O ur responsibility is to read the other information longer-term viability statement.
We have nothing to and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our report in this respect.
financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with Corporate governance disclosures the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
We are required to report to you if: Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
w e have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our Strategic report and directors report financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual Based solely on our work on the other information: report and financial statements taken as a whole w e have not identified material misstatements is fair, balanced and understandable and provides in the strategic report and the directors report: the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, i n our opinion the information given in those business model and strategy: or reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and t he section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not i n our opinion those reports have been prepared appropriately address matters communicated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. by us to the Audit Committee.
Directors remuneration report We are required to report to you if the Corporate In our opinion the part of the Directors Governance Statement does not properly disclose Remuneration Report to be audited has been a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK properly prepared in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code specified by the Companies Act 2006.
Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 81 6.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE Irregularities ability to detect OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE We identified areas of laws and regulations that REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector U nder the Companies Act 2006, we are required to experience and through discussion with the report to you if, in our opinion: Directors, the manager and the administrator adequate accounting records have not been kept, as required by auditing standards.
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements the financial statements and the part of the including financial reporting including related Directors Remuneration Report to be audited company legislation as well as the Company are not in agreement with the accounting qualification as an Investment Trust under UK tax records and returns: or legislation, any breach of which could lead to the certain disclosures of directors remuneration Company losing various deductions and specified by law are not made: or exemptions from UK corporation tax.
We we have not received all the information and considered the extent of compliance with those explanations we require for our audit.
laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations 7.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES throughout our team, which included individuals with experience relevant to these laws and Directors responsibilities regulations, and remained alert to any indications As explained more fully in their statement set out of non-compliance throughout the audit.
on page 77, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: non-detection of non-compliance with relevant such internal control as they determine is laws and regulations irregularities, as these necessary to enable the preparation of financial may involve collusion, forgery, intentional statements that are free from material omissions, misrepresentations, or the override misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: of internal controls.
assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 8.
THE PURPOSE OF OUR AUDIT WORK AND related to going concern: and using the going TO WHOM WE OWE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES concern basis of accounting unless they either This report is made solely to the Companys intend to liquidate Company or to cease operations, members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work Auditors responsibilities has been undertaken so that we might state to the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance Companys members those matters we are required about whether the financial statements as a whole to state to them in an auditors report and for no are free from material misstatement, whether due other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, to fraud, other irregularities see below, or error, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
other than the Company and the Companys Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, members, as a body, for our audit work, for this but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in report, or for the opinions we have formed.
accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other John Waterson Senior Statutory Auditor irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory reasonably be expected to influence the economic Auditor decisions of users taken on the basis of the Chartered Accountants, Saltire Court, 20 Castle financial statements.
Terrace, Edinburgh, EH1 2EG A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 82 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 84 Statement of Comprehensive Income 85 Statement of Changes in Equity 86 Balance Sheet 87 Cash Flow Statement 88 Notes to the Financial Statements
