BUSINESS MODEL Premier aims to increase net asset value by Growth developing high quality projects.
The Group seeks to increase its reserve and resource base from a strong through both acquisition and exploration activity depending upon prevailing market conditions.
foundation Inputs How we create value Country and stakeholder benefits Committed and integrated corporate Protecting its people, its assets and the environment grants Premier its responsibility social and legal licence to operate, and is critical to Premier's business.
A belief in always operating safely and responsibly by considering our people, the community and environment.
Link to strategy 01 Portfolio management Premier actively manages its portfolio to ensure the Groups capital and people are focused on its highest returning assets and where the Company is best placed to create value.
Operate and develop high quality projects Maximising high margin production, delivering timely projects.
Exploration Development Link to strategy 02 Premier seeks to replenish its Premier has a long and reserve and resource base through established history of executing successful exploration subject to development projects.
Disciplined financial control Rigorous cost control Long-term growth Medium-term growth and capital allocation Premiers high-graded exploration Premier's 500 Bcf gross Tolmount focusing on returns and portfolio provides the Group with Main gas project in the UK supports financial liquidity.
organic growth opportunities in the the Group's medium-term production Link to strategy longer-term such as Wahoo and Cabrilla profile.
Beyond Tolmount, Sea Lion in Mexico, Tolmount East and Tolmount Phase 1 in the Falkland Islands and 03 Far East in the UK and Itarema and the giant Zama oil field in Mexico will Berimbau in Brazil.
underpin Premier's long-term growth.
Highly trained staff Capable in-house operating teams supported by functional experts.
Financial, risk management Link to strategy and rigorous corporate governance 04 Managing its risks and strict financial discipline are critical to the success of Premier's business.
All of the Group's operations are carried out against a background of rigorous corporate governance.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 12 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 13 Premier's strategy Premier's business model is inherently linked to its strategy and supports all four pillars of it.
01 Operating in a safe and responsible manner 02 Focused on high quality assets with commercially advantaged positions 03 Access to capital and financial liquidity 04 Effective organisation sustained by the right people Output Stakeholder value Production Premier seeks to maximise value from its low-cost, stable production Cash flow base to generate cash flows.
Short-term cash generation Premier's robust production portfolio, supported by increased Catcher Area production and a strong performance from its Asian assets, generates material cash flow.
This is protected from oil price volatility via a hedging programme and is directed towards reducing the Group's Debt Selective debt levels and selective reinvestment.
reduction reinvestment Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements
