"Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Independent auditors report to the members of Primary Health Properties PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements of Primary Health Properties plc the ""parent company"" and its subsidiaries the ""group"" give a true andfair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation."
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the group statement of comprehensive income: the group and parent company balance sheets: the group cash flow statement: the group and parent company statements of changes in equity: and the related Notes 1 to 29 for the group and 1 to 18 for the parent Company.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the international Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
"We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council the ""FRCs"" Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements."
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matter that we identified in the current year was: in relation to the valuation of investment property, the estimation of the property yields tobe applied.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 14.7million which was determined on the basis of 2% of Net Assets.
In addition to net assets, we considered EPRA Earnings to be a critical financial performance measure for the group and we applied a lower threshold of 1.7 million for items affecting EPRA Earnings.
Scoping Consistent with 2017, we performed full scope audit procedures on all of the groups subsidiaries.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the group audit engagement team.
Significant changes There have been no significant changes in our approach in the current year, with the key audit matter inourapproach still relating to the valuation of investment property.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 71 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Primary Health Properties PLC Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material to report, addor draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2.1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add ordraw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material to report, addor draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 24 to 31 that describe the principal risks andexplain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 24 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on pages 30 and 31 as to how they haveassessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
72 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Estimation of property yields Key audit matter The group owns and manages a portfolio of primary healthcare properties that are carried at fair description valuein the financial statements.
The portfolio is valued at 1,502.9 million as at 31 December 2018 2017: 1,361.9million.
The group uses professionally qualified external valuers to fair value the groups portfolio at six-monthly intervals.
"The valuers are engaged by the Directors and perform their work in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors ""RICS"" Valuation Professional Standards."
The valuers used by the group have considerable experience in the markets in which the group operates.
The portfolio excluding development properties is valued by the investment method of valuation with development properties valued by the same methodology with a deduction made for all costs necessary to complete the development.
The estimation of yields in the property valuation is a significant judgement area and is underpinned bya number of assumptions relating to the size and location of the property as well as certain attributes of the lease.
Given the high level of judgement involved, we have determined that there was a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of this balance.
The inherent subjectivity in relation to estimation of yields, coupled with the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material misstatement on the Statement of Comprehensive Income Statement of Financial Position, warrants specific audit focus in this area.
Please see accounting policy at page 84 and Note 10 to the financial statements.
The consideration ofthis risk by the Audit Committee is described at page 53.
How the scope of our We assessed the design and implementation of managements process for reviewing and assessing audit responded to the the work of the external valuer.
key audit matter We obtained and read the external valuation reports for all properties and evaluated whether the valuation approach is in accordance with RICS and suitable for use in determining the carrying value in the balance sheet.
We assessed the competence, independence and integrity of the external valuer and read their terms of engagement with the group to determine whether there were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have imposed scope limitations on their work.
We met with the external valuer of the portfolio to discuss the results of their work.
We challenged their valuation process and discussed significant assumptions and critical judgements over yields in the context of publicly available information, including average yields quoted by competitors as well as comparable property transactions.
We selected a sample of properties, where the yields applied in the valuation were outside the expected range.
We challenged the explanations provided with reference to underlying evidence, such as lease terms and where necessary, held further discussions with the valuers.
Key observations We concluded that the assumptions applied in relation to yields in arriving at the fair value of the groups property portfolio by the external valuers were appropriate.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 73 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Primary Health Properties PLC Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 14.7 million 2017: 10.6 million and a lower Materiality for the parent company has been materiality of 1.7 million 2017: 1.6 million for determined as 3.6m 2017: 6.0m.
Basis for determining 2% of net assets 2017: 2% of net assets.
2% of net assets excluding intercompany materiality 2017:2% of total assets excluding intercompany.
The lower materiality used for balances impactingEPRA earnings was determined This basis has changed from total assets in the using5% 2017: 5% of EPRA Earnings.
prior year to net assets this year.
As there is no material debt, this change has had no significant impact on the materiality level.
Rationale for the The overall level of materiality was determined The overall level of materiality was determined benchmark applied using net assets because this is the primary focus using net assets as this is determined to be the of investors in listed real estate businesses.
most stable base for calculation.
Group materiality 14.7m Materiality for parent company 3.6m NAV 788m Materiality for itemsaffecting EPRAearnings 1.7m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.3m In addition to net assets, we considered EPRA Earnings to be a critical financial performance measure for the group and we applied a lower threshold of 1.7 million for EPRA Earnings items.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 348,000 2017:321,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Wealso report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation ofthefinancial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at group level.
The group is audited by one audit team, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The audit is performed centrally, as the books and records for each entity within the group are maintained at the offices of the adviser.
This is with the exception of the books and records for the groups investment in the Irish Collective Asset Management Vehicle ICAV, which holds properties acquired in Ireland, which are held by a local Trust and are audited byDeloitte Ireland.
We also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information.
We perform full scope audit procedures on all of the groups subsidiaries at the same time as the group audit which are subject tostatutory audit at materiality levels which in most cases are substantially lower than group materiality ranging from 0.1 million to 3m million 2017:0.03 million to 1.6 million.
This results in full scope audit procedures performed on 100% 2017: 100% ofthe groups net assets.
74 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by thedirectors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable andprovides the information necessary for shareholders to assess thegroups position and performance, business model and strategy, ismaterially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 75 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Primary Health Properties PLC Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax and valuations regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following area: the judgement surrounding the yield estimation for the valuation of properties: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, REIT legislation, listing rules and tax legislation.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified valuation of investment properties pinpointed to the yield as a key audit matter.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matter in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to that key audit matter.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management and the audit committee concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance: in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
76 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report inrespect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report inrespect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records andreturns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Board of Primary Health Properties on 1 June 2013 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2013 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 6 years, covering the years ending 31December 2013 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Sara Tubridy, FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 30 January 2019 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 77
