Independent auditors report to the members of Prudential plc only 1 Our opinion is unmodified In our opinion: Basis for opinion We have audited the financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance The financial statements give a true and of Prudential plc the Group and parent with International Standards on Auditing fair view of the state of the Groups and company for the year ended UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 which comprise: Our responsibilities are described below.
31 December 2018 and of the Groups We believe that the audit evidence we have the consolidated income statement, profit for the year then ended: obtained is a sufficient and appropriate consolidated statement of The Group financial statements have basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion comprehensive income, consolidated been properly prepared in accordance is consistent with our report to the statement of changes in equity, with International Financial Reporting audit committee.
consolidated statement of financial Standards as adopted by the position and consolidated statement We were appointed as auditor by the European Union: of cash flows, and the related notes, shareholders in October 1999.
The period including accounting policies in notes The parent company financial of total uninterrupted engagement A3 and E1: and statements have been properly prepared is for the 20 financial years ended in accordance with UK Accounting 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled the statement of financial position, Standards including FRS 101 Reduced our ethical responsibilities under, and statement of changes in equity, and the Disclosure Framework: and we remain independent of the Group in related notes, including the significant accordance with, UK ethical requirements accounting policies in note 3, of the The financial statements have been including the Financial Reporting Council parent company financial statements.
prepared in accordance with the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to requirements of the Companies Act listed public interest entities.
No non-audit 2006 and, as regards the Group services prohibited by that standard financial statements, Article 4 of the were provided.
2 Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
330 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Valuation of policyholder liabilities 2018: 409,301 million, 2017: 411,243 million.
The risk compared to the prior year is unchanged.
Refer to page 115 Audit Committee report, page 181 accounting policy and pages 241 to 264 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response The Group has significant policyholder liabilities representing We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in performing 83 per cent of the Groups total liabilities.
our procedures in this area.
Our procedures included: Subjective valuation This is an area that involves significant judgement over uncertain Methodology choice future outcomes, mainly the ultimate total settlement value of long We have assessed the methodology for selecting assumptions term policyholder liabilities.
Economic assumptions, including and calculating the policyholder liabilities.
This included: investment return, credit risk and associated discount rates, and operating assumptions including mortality, morbidity, expenses, Assessing the methodology adopted for selecting assumptions utilisation of guarantees and persistency including consideration by applying our industry knowledge and experience and of policyholder behaviour are the key inputs used to estimate comparing the methodology used against industry standard these long term liabilities, in addition to the appropriate design actuarial practice: and calibration of complex reserving models.
Assessing the methodology adopted for calculating the The specific application of these judgements to individual policyholder liabilities by reference to the requirements of the segments is explained below.
accounting standard and assessing the impact of current year changes in methodology on the calculation of policyholder For the US insurance segment, the valuation of the guarantees liabilities: in the variable annuity VA business is complex as it involves exercising significant judgement over the relationship between the Comparing changes in methodology to our expectations derived investment return attaching to these products and the guarantees from market experience: and contractually provided to policyholders and the likely policyholder Evaluating the analysis of the movements in policyholder behaviour in response to changes in investment performance.
liabilities during the year, including consideration of whether For the UK insurance segment, the valuation of the policyholder the movements were in line with the methodology and liabilities in relation to the annuity business requires significant assumptions adopted.
judgement over the setting of mortality, expenses and credit risk Control operation assumptions.
We used our own IT specialists to assist us in performing our For the Asia insurance segment, the valuation of the policyholder procedures in this area which included testing of the design, liabilities requires significant judgement over the setting of implementation and operating effectiveness of key controls over the mortality and morbidity assumptions.
valuation process including additional testing in relation to model evaluation as a result of identified weaknesses in the general IT The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, control environment.
Controls testing in respect of the valuation we determined that the valuation of policyholder liabilities has a process included assessment and approval of the methods and high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of assumptions adopted over the calculation of policyholder liabilities reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial as well as appropriate access and change management controls over statements as a whole and possibly many times that amount.
Our procedures for the US insurance segment also included: Historical comparison Assessing the assumptions relating to policyholder behaviour by comparing to relevant company and industry historical experience data.
Benchmarking assumptions and sector experience Assessing the assumptions for investment mix and projected investment returns by comparing to company specific and industry data and for future growth rates by comparing to market trends and market volatility.
Utilising the results of our industry benchmarking of assumptions and actuarial market practice to inform our challenge of assumptions in relation to policyholder behaviour.
Model evaluation Assessing the cash flow projections in the reserving models by reference to the inclusion of relevant product features.
We have also assessed the impact of modelling and assumption changes by inspecting pre and post change model runs and comparing the outcomes of the changes to our expectations.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 331 Independent auditors report to the members of Prudential plc only continued Valuation of policyholder liabilities 2018: 409,301 million, 2017: 411,243 million.
The risk Our response Our procedures for the UK insurance segment also included: Historical comparison Evaluating the data used to prepare the mortality experience analysis by reference to actual mortality experience of the policyholders in order to assess whether this supported the year-end assumptions adopted.
Assessing whether the expense assumptions appropriately reflect the expected future costs of administering the underlying policies by analysing current year unit costs and the likely impact of planned actions.
Benchmarking assumptions and sector experience Comparing mortality experience to industry data on current mortality and expectations of future mortality improvements.
Evaluating the credit risk assumptions, which affect discount rates, by reference to industry practice and our expectation derived from market experience taking into consideration economic factors.
Using the results of our industry benchmarking of assumptions and actuarial market practice to inform our challenge of the assumptions in relation to the mortality, credit risk and expense assumptions.
Model evaluation Evaluating the appropriateness of the calibration of the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI model the CMI Bureau releases industry wide mortality tables, adopted based on the analysis of the characteristics of the policyholder population and actual mortality experience.
We used our own valuation models to perform an independent recalculation of a sample of policyholder liabilities to assess whether the selected model calibration has been appropriately implemented.
Our procedures for the Asia insurance segment also included: Historical comparison Evaluating the experience analysis in respect of the mortality and morbidity assumptions by reference to actual experience in order to assess whether this supported the year-end assumptions adopted.
Benchmarking assumptions and sector experience Using our sector experience and market knowledge to inform our challenge of the assumptions in the areas noted above.
Model evaluation We have assessed the reserving models by considering the accuracy of the cash flow projections including by reference to the inclusion of relevant product features.
Assessing transparency We considered whether the disclosures in relation to the assumptions used in the valuation of policyholder liabilities are compliant with the relevant accounting requirements.
Our result We found the valuation of policyholder liabilities to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
332 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Valuation of investments 2018: 418,105 million, 2017: 422,230 million.
Refer to page 115 Audit Committee report, page 187 accounting policy and pages 221 to 240 financial disclosures The risk Our response The Groups investment portfolio represents 82 per cent of the We used our own valuation specialists in order to assist us in Groups total assets.
performing our procedures in this area.
The portfolio of quoted investments and investments that are Our procedures included: valued primarily using observable inputs makes up 78 per cent of Methodology choice the Groups total assets by value.
We do not consider these We assessed the appropriateness of the pricing methodologies with investments to be at a high risk of significant misstatement, or to be reference to relevant accounting standards as well as industry subject to a significant level of judgement because they comprise practice.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the financial statements as a whole, they are considered For quoted investments: to be one of the areas which had the greatest effect on our overall Tests of details audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and We performed independent price checks using external quoted completing our audit.
prices and by agreeing the observable inputs that were used in the Groups valuation techniques to external data.
Subjective valuation The area that involved significant audit effort and judgement in For harder to value positions: 2018 was the valuation of certain harder to value level 2 and level 3 Control operation positions within the financial investments portfolio representing We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness 5 per cent of the Groups total assets.
These included unlisted debt of key controls over the valuation process, including the Groups securities, unlisted loans and unlisted funds that are valued by review and approval of the estimates and assumptions used for the reference to their Net Asset Value NAV funds.
For these valuation including key authorisation and data input controls.
positions a reliable third party price was not readily available and therefore involved the application of expert judgement in the Benchmarking assumptions valuations adopted.
We assessed a sample of the valuation assumptions with reference to the Groups own valuation guidelines as well as industry practice.
The valuation of the portfolio involves judgement depending on the observability of the inputs into the valuation and further Tests of details judgement in determining the appropriate valuation methodology For a sample of unlisted debt and loan securities we compared the for harder to value investments where external pricing sources are price adopted to our independently derived price, using our either not readily available or are unreliable.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, We agreed the valuations for the NAV funds to the most recent NAV we determined that the valuation of investments has a high degree statements.
To assess reliability of these statements we compared of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable to audited financial statements of the funds, where available, outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements or performed a retrospective test over the NAV valuations for each as a whole and possibly many times that amount.
fund to assess if the fund valuations reported in the audited financial statements in the prior year were materially consistent with the most recent NAV valuation statements available at the time.
Assessing transparency We assessed whether the disclosures in relation to the valuation of investments are compliant with the relevant accounting requirements.
Our result We found the valuation of investments to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 333 Independent auditors report to the members of Prudential plc only continued Amortisation of US deferred acquisition costs DAC 2018: 8,727 million, 2017: 8,197 million.
Refer to page 115 Audit Committee report, page 185 accounting policy and pages 266 to 268 financial disclosures The risk Our response DAC represents 2 per cent of the Groups total assets.
The DAC We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us in performing associated with the US component, which represents 86 per cent our audit procedures in this area.
of the total DAC, involves the greatest judgement in terms Our procedures included: of measurement.
Accounting analysis Accounting treatment We evaluated the appropriateness of the deferral methodology DAC involves judgements in respect of the identification of the by reference to the requirements of relevant accounting standards.
acquisition costs that may be deferred and the appropriateness of the deferral methodology adopted.
Testing application We evaluated the judgements involved in determining whether The amortisation assessment of the DAC asset in the US the costs incurred are deferred appropriately by reference to the component is related to the achieved and projected future profit adopted deferral methodology.
This involves making assumptions about future investment returns and the consequential impact on fee income: therefore Benchmarking assumptions and market experience there is a greater level of subjectivity involved in relation to the All assumptions that are relevant to the calculation of the policyholder US DAC.
liabilities are also relevant to the calculation of DAC amortisation.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, See further detail in our response to that risk.
we determined that the amortisation of DAC has a high degree Additionally, we challenged the reasonableness of the selected of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable assumptions relating to projected investment return based on outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements our understanding of developments in the business and our as a whole.
expectations derived from market experience.
Our work included comparing the projected investment returns against the investment portfolio mix and market return data, and corroborating the rationale for any key differences.
Historical comparison We have also assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions used in determining the estimated future profit profile and the extent of the associated adjustment necessary to the amortisation of the DAC asset.
Our work included critically assessing the judgements that determine the future profit profiles in the context of actual historical experience as well as by reference to market trends.
Tests of detail We assessed the accuracy of the calculations performed including the extent of the amortisation adjustment determined based on an assessment of the future profit profiles.
Assessing transparency We assessed whether the disclosures in relation to the amortisation of DAC are compliant with the relevant accounting requirements.
Our result We found the capitalisation and amortisation of DAC to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
334 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Determination of pension asset restricted surplus in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme Pension asset restricted surplus 2018: 69 million, 2017: 71 million.
The risk relates to the parent company financial statements.
Refer to page 115 Audit Committee report, Refer to page 323 accounting policy and pages 284 to 290 financial disclosures The risk Our response The parent company assumes a portion of the surplus of the Our procedures included: Groups main defined benefit pension scheme.
Methodology choice Subjective valuation We assessed, with the support of our pension specialists, Where an entity does not have a right to a refund the asset ceiling the methodology for selecting assumptions underpinning the limit of the amount recognised is determined by reference to calculation of the defined benefit pension obligation and the the present value of the difference between the estimated future estimated future service cost leading to the consequent calculation service cost and the contributions payable by the entity over the of the restricted surplus.
future working lives of the active members.
Assumptions are made Tests of detail over the future service costs.
We assessed the reasonableness of the mortality assumptions and The calculation of the defined benefit obligation requires the discount rate by reference to entity specific data in respect of the determination of a number of assumptions, and judgement is demographic characteristics of the population of pension scheme required to determine the appropriateness of these.
The most members and factors such as salary inflation.
significant assumptions include mortality and the discount rate.
We also considered whether the movements in the defined benefit pension obligation and the estimated future service cost, including the consequential calculation of the restricted surplus, were consistent with the changes made in the assumptions from the prior year.
Benchmarking assumptions We challenged, with the support of our own pension specialists, the key assumptions applied to the pension obligation, being the discount and mortality rates, against externally derived data.
Our result We found the pension asset restricted surplus recognised in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 335 Independent auditors report to the members of Prudential plc only continued The impact of uncertainties due to the UK exiting the European Union on our audit Refer to page 52 Group Chief Risk Officers Report, page 68 viability statement, page 115 Audit Committee Report and page 194 financial disclosures.
The risk Our response Levels of uncertainty due to Brexit We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness of estimates, consideration of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning in particular as described in the valuation of policyholder liabilities, and performing our audits.
Our procedures included: valuation of investments and the determination of the defined Our Brexit knowledge We considered the directors assessment benefit pension asset restricted surplus above, and related of Brexit-related sources of risk for the Groups business and disclosures and the appropriateness of the going concern basis financial resources compared with our own understanding of the of preparation of the financial statements see below.
We considered the directors plans to take action to mitigate depend on assessments of the future economic environment the risks.
and the groups future prospects and performance.
Sensitivity analysis When addressing the valuation of In addition, we are required to consider the other information policyholder liabilities, valuation of investments and the presented in the Annual Report including the principal risks determination of the pension asset restricted surplus in respect disclosure and the viability statement and to consider the directors of the defined benefit pension scheme and other areas that statement that the annual report and financial statements taken depend on forecasts we compared the directors analysis to our as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides assessment of the full range of reasonably possible scenarios the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups resulting from Brexit uncertainty and, where forecast cash flows position and performance, business model and strategy.
are required to be discounted, considered adjustments to discount Brexit is one of the most significant economic events for the rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.
UK and at the date of this report its effects are subject to Assessing transparency As well as assessing individual unprecedented levels of uncertainty of outcomes, with the disclosures as part of our procedures on valuation of policyholder full range of possible effects unknown.
liabilities, valuation of investments and the determination of the pension asset restricted surplus in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme, we considered all of the Brexit related disclosures together, including those in the strategic report, comparing the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
Our result As reported under valuation of policyholder liabilities, valuation of investments and the determination of the pension asset restricted surplus in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme, we found the resulting estimates and related disclosures of these matters and disclosures in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
3 Our application of materiality and We set out below the materiality thresholds that are key to the audit.
an overview of the scope of our audit IFRS shareholders equity Materiality for the Group financial 17.25 billion 2017: 16.09 billion statements as a whole was set at Group materiality 350 million 2017: 350 million 350 million 2017: 350 million determined with reference to a benchmark A 350 million A Whole financial statements materiality of IFRS shareholders equity of which it 2017: 350 million represents 2 per cent 2017: 2.2 per cent.
We consider IFRS shareholders equity to be the most appropriate benchmark as it represents the residual interest that can be ascribed to shareholders after policyholder 1 2 assets and corresponding liabilities have been accounted for: we consider that this is the most appropriate measure for the B 115 million B size of the business and that it provides a Range of materiality at 16 components 55 million to 115 million stable measure year on year.
We compared 2017: 80 million to 186 million our materiality against other relevant C C 18 million benchmarks, such as total assets, total Misstatements reported to the revenue and profit before tax to ensure Audit Committee 2017: 18 million 1 IFRS shareholders equity the materiality selected was appropriate 2 Group materiality for our audit.
336 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Materiality for the parent company These components accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: financial statements as a whole was set at 115 million 2017: 186 million, Group revenue Group profit before tax determined with reference to a benchmark of parent companys net assets, of which 3% 93% 6% 91% it represents 1.5 per cent 2017: 2.4 per cent.
2% 92% 10% 86% We agreed to report to the Group audit committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 96% 97% 18 million 2017: 18 million in addition 2017 94% 2017 96% to other identified misstatements that warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
We subjected the Groups operations to audits for group reporting purposes as follows: Of the 16 2017: 16 reporting components scoped in for the Group audit, we Group total assets Group shareholders equity subjected 10 2017: 10 to full scope audits for group reporting purposes, 5 2017: 6 5% 92% 5% 89% to an audit of account balances and 1 2017: Nil to specified risk-focused audit 5% 91% 4% 90% procedures.
The components for which we performed work other than full scope audits for group reporting purposes were not individually significant but were 97% 94% 2017 96% 2017 94% included in the scope of our group reporting work as they did present specific individual audit risks that needed to be addressed or in order to provide further coverage over the Groups results.
The components subjected to full scope audits included the parent company: the Prudential Assurance Company Limited in the UK and the insurance operations in the US, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Singapore, Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam: and the Audit of account balances and specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 fund management operations of M&G.
Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 Audit of account balances 2017 The components subjected to an audit Residual components of account balances included Prudential Capital, Prudential Pensions Limited, Prudential Loan Investment Fund all based in the UK and the insurance operations in China and Taiwan.
The account balances audited were policyholder liabilities, investments and deferred acquisition costs.
Additionally, we subjected Eastspring Singapore to specified risk-focused audit procedures over revenue.
For the remaining operations, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these operations.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 337 Independent auditors report to the members of Prudential plc only continued The Group audit team held a global Our responsibility is to conclude on Based on this work, we are required planning conference with component the appropriateness of the Directors to report to you if: auditors to identify audit risks and decide conclusions and, had there been a material We have anything material to add or how each component team should address uncertainty related to going concern, to draw attention to in relation to the the identified audit risks.
The Group audit make reference to that in this audit report.
directors statement in note A1 to the team instructed component auditors However, as we cannot predict all future financial statements on the use of the as to the significant areas to be covered, events or conditions and as subsequent going concern basis of accounting with including the relevant risks detailed events may result in outcomes that are no material uncertainties that may cast above and the information to be reported.
inconsistent with judgements that were significant doubt over the Group and The Group audit team approved the reasonable at the time they were made, Companys use of that basis for a period component materialities, which ranged the absence of reference to a material of at least a year from the date of from 55 million to 115 million 2017: uncertainty in this auditors report is not approval of the financial statements: or 80 million to 186 million across the a guarantee that the Group and the components, having regard to the size Company will continue in operation.
The related statement under the Listing and risk profile of the Group across the Rules set out on page 128 is materially In our evaluation of the Directors components.
The work on 15 components inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
conclusions, we considered the inherent 2017: 15 components was performed risks to the Groups and Companys We have nothing to report in these by component auditors and work on the business model and analysed how those respects, and we did not identify going remaining component, which was the risks might affect the Groups and concern as a key audit matter.
parent company, was performed by the Companys financial resources or ability Group audit team.
5 We have nothing to report to continue operations over the going on the other information in the The Group audit team visited all concern period.
The risks that we Annual Report component auditor locations.
Video considered most likely to adversely affect The directors are responsible for the and telephone conference meetings were the Groups and Companys available other information presented in the also held with these component auditors.
financial resources over this period were: Annual Report together with the financial At these visits and telephone conference Adverse impacts arising from statements.
Our opinion on the financial meetings, an assessment was made fluctuations or negative trends in the statements does not cover the other of audit risk and strategy, the findings economic environment which affect information and, accordingly, we do not reported to the Group audit team were the valuations of the Groups express an audit opinion or, except as discussed in more detail, key working investments, wider credit spreads and explicitly stated below, any form of papers were inspected and any further defaults and valuation of policyholder assurance conclusion thereon.
work required by the Group audit team was liabilities due to the impact of these then performed by the component auditor.
Our responsibility is to read the other market movements: and information and, in doing so, consider The Senior Statutory Auditor, in conjunction Severely adverse policyholder lapse whether, based on our financial statements with other senior staff in the Group and or claims experience.
audit work, the information therein is component audit teams, also regularly materially misstated or inconsistent with attended Business Unit audit committee As these were risks that could potentially the financial statements or our audit meetings these were held at a regional cast significant doubt on the Groups and knowledge.
Based solely on that work we level for Asia and participated in meetings the Companys ability to continue as a going have not identified material misstatements with local components to obtain additional concern, we considered sensitivities over in the other information.
understanding, first hand, of the key risks the level of available financial resources and audit issues at a component level which indicated by the Groups financial forecasts Strategic report and directors report may affect the Group financial statements.
taking account of reasonably possible Based solely on our work on the other but not unrealistic adverse effects that information: 4 We have nothing to report could arise from these risks individually and on going concern collectively and evaluated the achievability we have not identified material The Directors have prepared the financial of the actions the Directors consider they misstatements in the strategic report statements on the going concern basis would take to improve the position should and the directors report: as they do not intend to liquidate the the risks materialise.
We also considered in our opinion the information given in Company or the Group or to cease their less predictable but realistic second order those reports for the financial year is operations, and as they have concluded impacts, such as failure of counterparties consistent with the financial statements: that the Companys and the Groups who have transactions with the Group and financial position means that this is realistic.
such as banks and reinsurers to meet They have also concluded that there are commitments that could give rise to a in our opinion those reports have been no material uncertainties that could have negative impact on the Groups financial prepared in accordance with the cast significant doubt over their ability position, increased illiquidity which also Companies Act 2006. to continue as a going concern for at least adds to uncertainty over the accessibility a year from the date of approval of Directors remuneration report of financial resources and may reduce the financial statements the going In our opinion the part of the Directors capital resources as valuations decline concern period.
Remuneration Report to be audited has and the impact of Brexit on the economic been properly prepared in accordance environment and the resulting impact with the Companies Act 2006. on the Groups capital resources.
338 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 06  EEV basisresults 07  Disclosures of principal risks The section of the annual report Auditors responsibilities and longer-term viability describing the work of the Audit Our objectives are to obtain reasonable Based on the knowledge we acquired Committee does not appropriately assurance about whether the financial during our audit, we have nothing material address matters communicated statements as a whole are free from to add or draw attention to in relation to: by us to the Audit Committee.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to The directors confirmation within We are required to report to you if the issue our opinion in an auditors report.
the viability statement on page 68, Corporate Governance Statement does Reasonable assurance is a high level of that they have carried out a robust not properly disclose a departure from assurance, but does not guarantee that an assessment of the principal risks facing the 11 provisions of the UK Corporate audit conducted in accordance with ISAs the Group, including those that would Governance Code specified by the Listing UK will always detect a material threaten its business model, future Rules for our review.
Misstatements performance, solvency and liquidity: We have nothing to report in these respects.
can arise from fraud, other irregularities The principal risks disclosures on pages or error and are considered material if, 6 We have nothing to report in 52 to 69 describing these risks and individually or in aggregate, they could respect of the matters on which we explaining how they are being managed reasonably be expected to influence the are required to report by exception and mitigated: and economic decisions of users taken on the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are basis of the financial statements.
The directors explanation in the required to report to you if, in our opinion: viability statement of how they have A fuller description of our responsibilities Adequate accounting records have not assessed the prospects of the Group, is provided on the FRCs website at been kept by the parent company, or over what period they have done so www.
uk  returns adequate for our audit have not and why they considered that period been received from branches not visited Irregularities ability to detect to be appropriate, and their statement by us: or We identified areas of laws and regulations as to whether they have a reasonable that could reasonably be expected to have expectation that the Group will be able The parent company financial a material effect on the financial statements to continue in operation and meet its statements and the part of the Directors from our general commercial and sector liabilities as they fall due over the period Remuneration Report to be audited are experience and through discussion with of their assessment, including any not in agreement with the accounting the directors and other management related disclosures drawing attention records and returns: or as required by auditing standards, and to any necessary qualifications Certain disclosures of directors from inspection of the Groups regulatory or assumptions.
remuneration specified by law are and legal correspondence and discussed Under the Listing Rules we are required not made: or with the directors and other management to review the viability statement.
We have the policies and procedures regarding We have not received all the nothing to report in this respect.
compliance with laws and regulations.
information and explanations We communicated identified laws and Our work is limited to assessing these we require for our audit.
regulations throughout our team and matters in the context of only the We have nothing to report in these respects.
remained alert to any indications of knowledge acquired during our financial non-compliance throughout the audit.
As we cannot predict 7 Respective responsibilities This included communication from the all future events or conditions and as Directors responsibilities Group to component audit teams of subsequent events may result in outcomes As explained more fully in their statement relevant laws and regulations identified that are inconsistent with judgements that set out on page 329, the directors are at group level.
were reasonable at the time they were responsible for the preparation of the made, the absence of anything to report The potential effect of these laws and financial statements including being on these statements is not a guarantee regulations on the financial statements satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
as to the Groups longer-term viability.
Firstly, the Group is They are also responsible for: such internal subject to laws and regulations that directly control as they determine is necessary Corporate governance disclosures affect the financial statements including to enable the preparation of financial We are required to report to you if: financial reporting legislation including statements that are free from material We have identified material related companies legislation, distributable misstatement, whether due to fraud or inconsistencies between the knowledge profits legislation and taxation legislation error: assessing the Group and parent we acquired during our financial and we assessed the extent of compliance companys ability to continue as a going statements audit and the directors with these laws and regulations as part concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters statement that they consider that the of our procedures on the related financial related to going concern: and using the annual report and financial statements statement items.
going concern basis of accounting unless taken as a whole is fair, balanced and they either intend to liquidate the Group or understandable and provides the the parent company or to cease operations, information necessary for shareholders or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or www.
co. uk Annual Report 2018 Prudential plc 339 Independent auditors report to the members of Prudential plc only continued Secondly, the Group is subject to many 8 The purpose of our audit work and other laws and regulations where the to whom we owe our responsibilities consequences of non-compliance could This report is made solely to the Companys have a material effect on amounts or members, as a body, in accordance with disclosures in the financial statements, Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act for instance through the imposition of fines 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken or litigation or the loss of the Groups so that we might state to the Companys licence to operate.
We identified the area of members those matters we are required regulatory capital as that most likely to have to state to them in an auditors report and such an effect recognising the financial and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent regulated nature of the Groups activities.
permitted by law, we do not accept or Auditing standards limit the required audit assume responsibility to anyone other procedures to identify non-compliance than the Company and the Companys with these laws and regulations to enquiry members, as a body, for our audit work, of the directors and other management for this report, or for the opinions we and inspection of regulatory and legal have formed.
These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that Philip Smart we may not have detected some material Senior Statutory Auditor misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, and performed our audit in accordance Statutory Auditor with auditing standards.
For example, Chartered Accountants the further removed non-compliance with London laws and regulations is from the events 12 March 2019 and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
340 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
