Independent auditors report to Prudential plc on the European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information Opinions and conclusions arising The impact of uncertainties due to Scope of an audit of financial from our audit the UK exiting the European Union statements performed in Our opinion on the EEV basis on our audit accordance with ISAs UK supplementary information is Uncertainties related to the effects of A description of the scope of an audit unmodified Brexit are relevant to understanding our of financial statements is provided on We have audited the EEV basis audit of the financial statements.
All audits our website at www.
com uk supplementary information assess and challenge the reasonableness auditscopeukco2014a.
This report is of Prudential plc the Company for the of estimates made by the directors and made subject to important explanations year ended 31 December 2018 set out in related disclosures and the appropriateness regarding our responsibilities, as published the EEV basis results and Notes on the of the going concern basis of preparation on that website, which are incorporated EEV basis results pages.
The EEV basis of the financial statements.
All of these into this report as if set out in full and supplementary information should be depend on assessments of the future should be read to provide an understanding read in conjunction with the Group economic environment and the groups of the purpose of this report, the work financial statements.
Brexit we have undertaken and the basis of is one of the most significant economic our opinions.
In our opinion, the EEV basis events for the UK, and at the date of supplementary information of the this report its effects are subject to The purpose of this report and Company for the year ended 31 December unprecedented levels of uncertainty of restrictions on its use by persons 2018 has been properly prepared, in all outcomes, with the full range of possible other than the Company material respects, in accordance with the effects unknown.
We applied a This report is made solely to the Company European Embedded Value Principles standardised firm-wide approach in in accordance with the terms of our dated April 2016 by the European response to that uncertainty when engagement.
Our audit work has been Insurance CFO Forum the EEV assessing the groups future prospects undertaken so that we might state to the Principles using the methodology and and performance.
However, no audit Company those matters we have been assumptions set out in the Notes on the should be expected to predict the engaged to state in this report and for no EEV basis results.
unknowable factors or all possible future other purpose.
To the fullest extent implications for a company and this is permitted by law, we do not accept or particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this Respective responsibilities of report, or for the opinions we have formed.
directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 375, the directors have accepted responsibility for the preparation of the supplementary information on the Philip Smart EEV basis in accordance with the Senior Statutory Auditor EEV Principles.
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Our responsibility is to audit, and express Chartered Accountants an opinion on, the supplementary London information in accordance with the terms of our engagement and in accordance with 12 March 2019 International Standards on Auditing UK.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standard.
376 Prudential plc Annual Report 2018 www.
