225 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Provident Financial plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Basis for opinion In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the financial statements of Provident Financial plc the under those standards are further described in the auditors Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs ofour report.
as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards theFRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in the Company financial statements have been properly prepared accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies to the Company.
Act2006: and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with andappropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Provident Financial plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: The consolidated income statement: The consolidated statement of comprehensive income: The consolidated and Company balance sheets: The consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity: The consolidated and Company cash flow statements: The statement of accounting policies: and The related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
226 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Provident Financial plc continued Summary of our audit approach The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key audit matters Provision for impairment losses against loans and receivables in the home credit business, Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn Vanquis Bank Repayment Option Plan ROP provision Moneybarn FCA investigation into affordability, forbearance and termination options Revenue recognition in the home credit business and Vanquis Bank Defined benefit pension scheme valuation Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 8.6 million which was determined on the basis of 4.5% of the average profit Materiality before tax and exceptional items for the past three years.
As in the prior year, our Group audit scope focused on all of the principal trading subsidiaries within the Groups three reportable segments which Scoping account for 100% of the Groups profit before tax.
We have determined that there is no longer amaterial uncertainty relating to going concern following on from the completion of the rights issue Significant inApril 2018 that raised net share proceeds of 300m.
This recapitalised the group and generated sufficient funds to cover the estimated costs of changes the ROP refund programme, Moneybarns affordability, forebearance and termination options investigation and regulatory capital headroom.
in our approach In the current year we have set out separate key audit matters in respect of the Vanquis Bank ROP provision and the Moneybarn conduct provisionas the audit risks identified and the audit approach in 2018 are different.
In the previous year we referred to the Consumer Credit Division in relation to our key audit matters for loan loss provisioning and revenue recognition, the current year we more specifically refer to home credit in line with where our work is focussed.
We determined that application of a three-year average profit measure remains appropriate due to the importance of applying a consistent materiality benchmark during a period of significant change and rebuilding of the group.
The percentage applied to the benchmark has been increased from 3.5% to 4.5% to reflect the improved result in the current year.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement We have reviewed the directors statement in the statement of accounting policies in the Going concern financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Company, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements We confirm that we have nothing material of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
toreport, add or draw attention to in respect Weevaluated the directors assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going ofthesematters.
concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were Principal risks and consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the viability statement knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 46-54 that describe the principal risks and explain howthey are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 143 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would We confirm that we have nothing material threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or toreport, add or draw attention to in respect the directors explanation on page 70 as to how they have assessed the prospects ofthesematters.
of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects ofthe Company required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
227 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements ofthe current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit:and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, andwedo not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Provision for impairment losses against loans and receivables Home Credit Division, Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn The IFRS 9 provision for impairment losses is calculated by modelling portfolios of receivables within the Group.
The assessment of the Groups Key audit matter calculation of provisions is complex and requires management to make significant judgements regarding the level and timing of expected future cash description flows to calculate expected credit losses.
There is further judgement involved in assessing whether the model and any adjustments capture all relevant factors that have a significant influence on expected credit losses.
Due to the ability of management to introduce inappropriate bias to judgements made in the estimation process, we have determined that there was apotential for fraud through possible manipulation of any provision for loan impairment.
The Groups provision for impairment against loans and receivables is 1,073.7 million and further detail in respect of these assumptions is set out on page 174 and 175 and in note 14 of the financial statements and also on page 131 within the governance section.
Within the Home Credit Division receivables are valued using collections curves to estimate the expected future losses on cohorts of loans exhibiting similar risk characteristics including the customers internal credit score, the number of missed payments in the previous 12 weeks, and whether the customer has previously had a Provident home-collect loan.
These collections curves are based on 2016 collections levels, which was prior tothe operational disruption experienced during 2017 and the corresponding impact on customer collections and customer relationships.
We have therefore identified a risk that the embedded IFRS 9 collection curves do not accurately predict future cash collections for the current composition ofthereceivables book.
Within Vanquis Bank modelling techniques are applied by management to estimate the provision for expected credit losses on credit card receivables.
The underlying IFRS 9 models and calculation techniques are complex and make use of significant amounts of data from a variety of sources.
We consider that the key areas of judgement in determining the provision are: The determination of the probability of default PDs for accounts which have not experienced a significant increase in credit risk since origination: and The level and timing of expected future cash flows from defaulted loans impacting the estimate of loss given default LGDs.
Historical payment patterns are generated using data extracted from the Companys loan administration system.
The extracted data is used to calibrate the developed models updating their parameters to capture the most recent performance of the portfolio which then estimates account-specific PDs and LGDs.
Inappropriate calibration of the models could materially impact the provision for expected credit losses.
Within Moneybarn management use SQL scripts to extract historical collections which are then used to manually create PD and LGD models within excelspreadsheets.
We identified a significant risk in relation to the ability of the PD and LGD models to estimate future losses as historical collections data will not necessarily reflect future performance.
228 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Provident Financial plc continued Provision for impairment losses against loans and receivables Home Credit Division, Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn Controls procedures How the scope Within the Home Credit Division and Vanquis Bank we evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of ofour audit relevant controls relating to calibration of the expected credit loss models.
Identification, valuation and recording of impairment provisions.
responded to the Within the Home Credit Division this included using our IT specialists to test the data flow of loans made and collections received from source key audit matter systems to the automated IFRS 9 model scripts to test their completeness and accuracy.
Within Moneybarn we evaluated the design and implementation of relevant controls relating to the recording of impairment provisions.
Substantive procedures Across each of the divisions we obtained an understanding of the IFRS 9 methodology and models.
We evaluated whether the methodology applied by management is compliant with requirements of IFRS 9.
This included considerations related to the appropriateness of portfolio segmentation into homogeneous cohorts.
In performing these procedures we further considered whether there were any indications of bias in the methodology applied by management or in the estimate of the level and timing of expected future cash flows.
We also challenged whether the potential impact of Brexit has been appropriately incorporated into expected credit loss calculations.
Within the Home Credit Division we utilised our data specialists to independently reperform the expected credit loss calculation for the entire population of loans using the fixed 2016 collections curves.
We tested managements calculation of the provision shortfall on loans which are performing below 2016 levels.
This cohort is made up of loans written in the first half of 2017, which is consistent with the period most significantly impacted following the announcement of the plan for transition to an employee based collections model.
We engaged our data specialists to test the completeness and accuracy of the data used in the provision shortfall calculations, and we reviewed and challenged the underlying methodology.
Within Vanquis Bank we evaluated the mechanics of the model with the assistance of an internal credit modelling specialist to confirm that it is consistent with the methodology designed by management.
We obtained, evaluated and tested the model performance monitoring reports produced by management which compare observed default data to parameters predicted by the models.
We tested the data used in the models including historical data used to generate expected future cash flows, the current portfolio data and the macroeconomic forecast data which are sourced by the company from a third party provider.
When testing the macroeconomic data, we have considered whether the potential impact of Brexit has been incorporated into the forecasts.
Within Moneybarn we engaged internal data specialists to evaluate the PD and LGD data extraction.
We reperformed a sample of model calculations for terminated customer loans to ensure the PD and LGD data was being corrected captured and represented by the SQL scripts within the excel models: thus further challenging the underlying logic of the scripts and ensuring that the models work as expected.
We challenged whether there was any evidence to suggest that historical collections data would not appropriately estimate future performance: byreference to recent actual loss experience and loan book trend analysis using internal management information.
The provision models across the Group were found to be working as intended and the methodology used reflects the requirements ofIFRS9.
Key observations Within the Home Credit Division, we identified that a number of individuals had privileged user access to databases that are key to the flow of data into the IFRS 9 models.
We did not place reliance on these controls and addressed the corresponding audit risks substantively.
We found the Home Credit Division provision shortfall calculated by management to be appropriate.
ROP provision Vanquis Bank On 27 February 2018 the Group reached a settlement with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA in respect of the investigation into the sale of Key audit matter the ROP product sold by the Group.
Significant management judgement was required to assess the level of provision which should be recognised description and the nature of any contingent liability disclosure.
As disclosed in note 24 the total provision remaining at 31 December 2018 following redress paid out to customers amounts to 45.7m 2017:96.7m.
Controls procedures How the scope of our audit We evaluated the design and implementation of the controls over the valuation of the ROP provision.
responded to the Substantive procedures key audit matter In order to understand whether key assumptions in estimation of the cash redress settlements are appropriate, we obtained and reviewed the correspondence between the Group and the FCA in relation to ROP.
We have reviewed and tested the accuracy of the calculations supporting the valuation of the provision recognised by management.
We have evaluated whether the underlying assumptions are reasonable and supportable.
We have tested the data used in the calculations by agreeing tosupporting evidence.
We also evaluated whether the provision disclosures contained within note 24 were appropriate and in accordance with the requirements ofIAS37.
No material issues were identified in the data used in the calculations.
We did not identify any material issues in the methodology used to calculate Key observations the redress and the calculations themselves were found to be appropriate.
The disclosures are in line with the requirements of IAS 37.
229 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Moneybarn FCA investigation into affordability, forbearance and termination options At 31 December 2017 Moneybarn recognised a provision of 20m as managements best estimate of the cost of settlement in respect of the FCA Key audit matter investigation.
The investigation specifically related to the business failure to ensure that repayments were affordable at the time of writing a loan: description that affordable arrears payment plans were put in place when a customer showed signs of detriment: and that clear communications were issued to customers in the run up to the termination of their contracts.
The investigation remains open and further customer redress may be required.
As a result we have identified a significant risk in relation to the completeness of the provision recorded in relation to the FCA investigation.
As disclosed in note 24 the total provision remaining at 31 December 2018 amounts to 7.5m 2017: 7.9m.
We engaged an internal conduct risk specialist to obtain and review all correspondence between the Group and the FCA during the year and How the scope determine the completeness of the Moneybarn conduct risk provisions.
of our audit responded to the In order to understand whether key assumptions in estimating the total cost of settlement are appropriate we reviewed their consistency with those used to create the provision in 2017, with changes expected and noted as a result of the ongoing dialogue with the FCA and the introduction keyaudit matter of the IFRS 9 provisioning model.
The provision recognised is appropriate and the disclosures are in line with the requirements of IAS 37.
Key observations Revenue Recognition Vanquis Bank and Home Credit Division The Groups revenue is 1,124.4 million FY17: 1,196.3 million and further detail in respect of the accounting policies and revenue recognised is set Key audit matter out in the accounting policies on pages 173 and 174 and notes 1 and 2 of the financial statements.
description Within Vanquis Bank we concluded that manual adjustments posted to the revenue balance pose a significant risk of material misstatement.
These manual adjustments are necessary to ensure revenue is recognised in compliance with the requirements of IFRS 9, which requires that interest should be accrued using the original effective interest rate applied to the net carrying value of the asset for credit-impaired assets and to the gross carrying value of assets that are not credit-impaired.
The loan administration system accrues revenue on a gross contractually billed basis, and therefore a manual adjustment is necessary.
The revenue calculation within the Home Credit Division is calculated in the IFRS 9 models using SQL scripts.
As a result of the additional complexities when calculating revenue under IFRS 9 with regards to whether or not the customer has met the definition of default, there exists anincreased risk related the accuracy of the design of the underlying scripts to capture these complexities.
Controls procedures How the scope We evaluated the design and implementation of the controls over the manual adjustments to revenue recognised by management ofour audit responded to the We tested the operating effectiveness of relevant controls over the flow of data from source systems into the revenue models within the Home Credit Division.
keyaudit matter Substantive procedures Within Vanquis Bank, we critically assessed the methodology used to calculate the manual adjustments to revenue against the IFRS requirements.
Wealso involved an internal specialist to review the programming code used to perform the calculation and evaluate whether it is performed in line withIFRS9.
Within the Home Credit Division we challenged the appropriateness of the Effective Interest Rates used to calculate revenue and reperformed the EIRcalculations for a sample of products.
We utilised internal data specialists to create an independent IFRS 9 revenue model and recalculated the weekly revenue for a sample of customers.
Within the Home Credit Division we found the models to be working as intended and the underlying assumptions to be reasonable.
Key observations Fromtheevidence we obtained, the underlying data used was found to be complete and accurate.
Within Vanquis Bank We concluded that the calculation is performed in compliance with IFRS 9 and the underlying data was found tobecompleteand accurate.
Defined benefit pension scheme valuation Under IAS 19, the value of the defined benefit pension scheme is recognised on the Groups balance sheet, reflecting an actuarial valuation of the assets Key audit matter and liabilities of the scheme at the balance sheet date.
The key risk of material misstatement is the valuation of the pension obligation of 704.4 million description 2017: 733.2 million.
This valuation involves judgements in relation to inflation rates, discount rates and mortality rates.
The most critical element identified was the discount rate assumption as set out in the sensitivity analysis in note 19.
We also focussed on the Guaranteed Minimum Pensions GMP equalisation ruling and the resulting increase in the schemes liabilities of 6.9 million.
Further detail in respect of these assumptions is set out in the accounting policies on page 176 and note 19 of the financial statements and also onpage 131 in the governance section.
We used internal actuarial specialists to assist us in evaluating the appropriateness of the principal actuarial assumptions used in the calculation How the scope oftheretirement benefit obligation.
This involved benchmarking managements assumptions against those used by a range of organisations of our audit asat31December 2018 and considering the consistency of those judgements compared to prior year.
responded to the Our actuarial specialists also performed a review of the GMP equalisation calculation and recalculated the estimated past service cost with keyaudit matter nomaterial differences noted.
230 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Provident Financial plc continued Revenue Recognition Vanquis Bank and Home Credit Division The GMP equalisation methodology was found to be in line with expectations and no material differences were identified through independent Key observations recalculation by our actuarial specialists.
All assumptions, including the discount rate adopted by management are within what we deem to be an acceptable range.
Our actuarial specialists also performed a review of the GMP equalisation calculation and recalculated the estimated past service cost with no material differences noted.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions ofareasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work andinevaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements 8.6 million 2017: 8.3 million 5.4 million 2017: 4.6 million Materiality 4.5% of profit before tax and exceptional items averaged over the previous three years 0.75% of net assets 2017: 5% of profit before tax and Basis for 2017: 3.5% exceptional items.
determining materiality Profit based measures are the financial measures most relevant to users of the We determined net assets to be the most appropriate Rationale for the financial statements.
We considered the most relevant basis for materiality to be the benchmark as the Company made a loss in the benchmark profits earnedfrom continuing business operations and have therefore excluded the currentyear.
applied exceptionalitems as identified by management in note 1 to the financial statements.
We considered that equity represented a relevant We determined that application of a three-year average profit measure remains measure used by investors and other stakeholders appropriate due to the importance of applying a consistent materiality benchmark when assessing the performance of the parent duringaperiod of significant change and rebuilding of the Group.
The percentage applied to the benchmark has been increased from 3.5% to 4.5% toreflectthe improved result in year.
Materiality profit before tax and exceptional items averaged over three years 191.4m Group materiality 8.6m Component materiality range 0.04m to 7.8m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.2m Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.2 million 2017: 0.2 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, and as in the prior year, our Group audit scope focused on all of the principal trading subsidiaries within the Groups three reportable segments which account for 100% of the Groups profit before tax.
Moneybarn and the Consumer Credit Division are audited by separate engagement teams led by the Group audit partner: Vanquis Bank is audited by a separate component team, under the supervision of the Group team who have maintained regular communication throughout the audit.
231 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report including the Strategic report, the Governance section and the Directors remuneration report, other than the financial statements and ourauditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, weconclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary toenable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis forour opinion.
232 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Provident Financial plc continued Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws andregulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team including significant component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax and IT specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: provisions for impairment losses against loans and receivables, ROP provision, Moneybarn conduct provision and revenue recognition, and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, pensions legislation, tax legislation.
In addition, compliance with the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority were fundamental to the Groups ability tocontinue as a going concern.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified provisions for impairment losses against loans and receivables, Vanquis Bank ROP provision, Moneybarn affordability forbearance and termination options provision, pension scheme valuation and revenue recognition as key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those keyaudit matters.
As a result of performing the above, we did not identify any key audit matters related to the potential risk of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws andregulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement dueto fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with regulatory bodies such the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating thebusiness rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws andregulations throughout the audit.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have notidentified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
233 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or respect of these matters.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been respect of these matters.
made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 29 June 2012 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2012 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 7 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2012 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matthew Perkins, Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Birmingham, United Kingdom 13 March 2019 234 Provident F inancial plc Annual Report and Fin ancial Statements 2018 Shareholder information Shareholder Information
