38 P Z Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of PZ Cussons Plc Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion: the Financial Statements of PZ Cussons Plc the parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 May 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements, which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated and parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Statement of Accounting Policies: and the related Notes 1 to 31.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 39 Summary of our audit approach The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key audit matters carrying value of Nutricima and five:am assets: defined benefit obligations: foreign exchange: and uncertain tax positions.
Within this report, any new key audit matters compared to those matters identified by  LLP PwC, the Auditor for the prior year, are identified with and any key audit matters that are the same as those identified by PwC in the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group Financial Statements was 4.0 m. The scope of our audit covered 99% of revenue, 100% of profit before tax and 100% of net assets.
Scoping Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement in the Report of the Directors on page 34 to the Financial We confirm that we Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of have nothing material accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups to report, add or draw and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of attention to in respect approval of the Financial Statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent We confirm that we with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the have nothing material evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a to report, add or draw going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention attention to in respect to in relation to: of these matters.
the disclosures on pages 35 to 39 of the Strategic Report that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors' confirmation on page 35 of the Strategic Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 35 of the Strategic Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those that had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
40 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Carrying value of Nutricima and five:am assets At 31 May 2018, the Group recognised goodwill of 63.1 m FY17: 63.1 m as per Note 10, software of47.5 m Key audit matter FY17: 44.8 m as per Note 10, property, plant and equipment PPE of 156.6 m FY17: 177.0 m as per Note 11 description and brands patents of 295.5 m FY17: 295.5 m as per Note 10.
Of the goodwill, intangibles and PPE recognised at 31 May 2018, 30.8m related to Nutricima, and included 4.6m goodwill, 15.5m in relation to brands and 10.7m of tangible fixed assets.
Of the goodwill, intangibles and PPE recognised at 31 May 2018, 47.9m related to five:am, and included 11.8m goodwill, 33.3m in relation to brands and 2.8m of tangible fixed assets.
There have been a number of events in the year that have constituted indicators that the risk of impairment of the Nutricima cash-generating unit's CGU assets is elevated this year, namely the financial performance of the CGU during the year, the continuing depressed market in Nigeria with inflation outstripping wage rises, volatility in the foreign exchange rates prevailing and levels of liquidity available, and the general uncertainty that surrounds the economy in anticipation of general elections in early 2019.
The performance of five:am has been marginally lower in the year than that anticipated by management.
Management has prepared a discounted cash flow model to assess the recoverable value of the assets attributable to the Nutricima and five:am s CGUs.
The key inputs that require judgementare: the identification of the relevant CGU s : the discount rate applied to the cash flows: the period of cash flows over which reliable forecasts can be derived: the growth rates assumed in the cash flows in relation to each of Nutricima and five:ams key brands, including the assumption as to when the decline in demand is arrested and the pace at which profitability subsequently improves: and the gross margins, and resultant net cash flows, that will be achieved.
We have considered the risk for potential fraud in relation to managements selection of these inputs.
Managements base case model shows headroom of 7.1m for Nutricima and 15.4m for five:am, however, reasonably possible downside sensitivities do indicate an impairment of up to 3.4m for Nutricima and 2.4m for five:am.
The inputs noted above have been identified as a key source of estimation uncertainty on page 63.
This area has also been considered as a matter for discussion in the report of the Audit & Risk Committee onpage 31.
We understood managements process for identifying indicators of impairment and for performing their How the scope of our impairment assessment.
We assessed the design and implementation of key controls relating to asset audit responded to impairment models, the underlying forecasting processes and the impairment reviews performed.
We the key audit matter evaluated and challenged the key assumptions and inputs into the impairment models, which included performing sensitivity analysis, to evaluate the impact of selecting alternative assumptions.
In challenging theassumptions, we have: considered the appropriateness of Nutricima comprising only one CGU: assessed the discount rate applied.
In doing so, we involved our internal valuation specialists to evaluate managements discount rates, which involved benchmarking against available market views and analysis: understood the extent to which forecasts can be reliably derived by the Company: and confirmed that forecast cash flows were consistent with Board approved forecasts and analysed reasonably possible downside sensitivities.
We have also discussed the base case forecasts with our component teams in Nigeria and Australia to understand whether there are any additional matters that should be factored into the sensitivity analysis and to understand the reasonableness of the base case forecasts relative to ourknowledge of Nutricima and five:ams business and of local macroeconomic factors.
We audited the integrity of the impairment models and cash flow forecasts to test arithmetical accuracy.
Werecalculated the headroom and agreed the balances to the underlying financial records.
We considered the compliance of the impairment model with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
We reviewed the impairment disclosures against the requirements of IAS 36.
We reviewed the presentation and disclosure of managements impairment assessment in the Financial Statements to assess whether the disclosure is consistent with the Groups policy and relevant accounting standards.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 41 Carrying value of Nutricima and five:am assets continued We have obtained suitable audit evidence to support the base case assumptions adopted by management, Key observations andtherefore concur with the conclusions of management that no impairment is required as at the date of thisreport.
For Nutricima and five:am, the discount rates used were outside of our expected range.
We have considered the impact of this difference as part of our sensitivity analysis and a change in discount rate to 8.25%, being the bottom end of our range in relation to five:am, would significantly reduce the headroom within that CGU, though it would not result in an impairment in managements base case model.
The difference in discount rate for Nutricima would increase headroom compared to managements base case scenario.
Reasonably possible scenarios would give rise to the need to record an impairment provision.
Management have provided appropriately detailed disclosure in this regard to highlight these sensitivities and provide an indication of the impacts of a range of reasonably possible scenarios on the impairment review conclusions thatwe have concluded to be appropriate.
Defined benefit obligations The Group participates in a number of defined benefit pension schemes, notably in the UK and Indonesia.
IAS Key audit matter 19 'Employee Benefits' IAS 19 requires the net value of the defined benefit schemes assets and liabilities description to be shown on the Balance Sheet.
In the case of schemes that are in a net surplus position under IAS 19, consideration must be given to whether the Company has an unconditional right to the surplus in determining whether it is appropriate to record the net surplus on the Balance Sheet.
Furthermore, highly judgemental assumptions must be made by management in valuing the scheme liabilities, including those in relation to discount rates, inflation and mortality.
As such, our audit risk has been pinpointed to: the assumptions underpinning the valuation of the liabilities of the Groups schemes: and the basis of the recognition of any net pension assets in line with IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
At 31 May 2018, the net pension surplus on an IAS 19 basis in relation to the Expatriate plan is 57 m. In respect of the Main staff plan, the net surplus is 26 m. The Group revised its accounting policy for determining whether or not it has an unconditional right to a refund of any surplus in its defined pension schemes, as discussed on page 54.
As a result, the surplus for the Expatriate plan has been fide-recognised.
This change of policy had the effect of reducing retained earnings by 38.3 m at 1 June 2017.
We have evaluated the design and implementation of the key controls relating to the pension schemes How the scope of our liabilities and accounting.
audit responded to the key audit matter In relation to the liability assumptions, we have included pensions specialists within our audit team, who have assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions adopted by management in the valuation of scheme liabilities and benchmarked those assumptions against a comparator group.
In relation to the appropriate accounting treatment for the two schemes that are showing a surplus on an IAS 19 basis, we have: reviewed legal opinions obtained by management in relation to the trustees and Companys rights under the scheme rules: considered the guidance within IFRIC 14: and reviewed managements rationale and judgements applied in relation to their determination of the appropriate accounting treatment.
Key observations We agree that the liability assumptions adopted by management are within a reasonable range.
We agree with the accounting policy change in relation to the recognition of a pension surplus.
We concur that the recognition of the surplus in the Main staff plan and the fide-recognition of the surplus in the Expatriate plan isappropriate.
42 P Z Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Foreign exchange valuation and disclosure The Nigerian foreign exchange regime is such that there are currently three official rates of exchange.
In Key audit matter addition, parallel market rates exist that are not independently quoted but that are accessed by the Group in description the settlement of certain balances or when there is insufficient liquidity on the official markets.
Judgement is required in selecting the rate at which to translate US Dollar denominated balances held in the Groups Nigerian entities into Naira, and the results of the Nigerian businesses into Sterling for consolidation purposes.
At 31 May 2017, the rate used by management was the Central Bank of Nigeria spot rate CBN.
The key audit matter arises around: consideration of which of the available rates of exchange comply with the requirements of IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates and therefore are available to be considered by management as appropriate rates for translation and remeasurement purposes: the selection of the most appropriate rate at which to translate the relevant balances as at the year end date: consideration of whether there are any specific transactions and balances that could or should be translated using a different rate due to restrictions on access to some or all of the official exchange markets for certain types of transaction: and the disclosure in Note 1 and the Report of the Audit & Risk Committee on page 31 of not only the rate that has been applied in the Annual Report and Accounts, but also the other key judgements that have been applied by management, including: the rationale for the selection of that rate: the rationale for the treatment of the impact of the change of rate as exceptional in the Income Statement: the financial impact of the selection of that rate compared to other judgements that could have reasonably been taken: and the actual rates at which balances and transactions are expected to be settled, including an explanation of why where there are differences between the rate at which balances have been translated and the expected settlement rate.
The Group has concluded that NIFEX is the appropriate rate to translate US Dollar denominated balances at 31 May 2018, as disclosed on page 64.
An exceptional charge has been recognised in the Income Statement, asnoted in Note 3.
We have analysed managements analysis of the rates that transactions are currently being settled at by the How the scope of our Group in conjunction with the requirements of IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
We audit responded to have held discussions with management regarding the appropriateness of recognising certain transactions the key audit matter at other rates and understood their process for identifying the rationale for changing the rate.
We have considered the appropriateness of the rate change being exceptional with reference to the exceptional items policy adopted by the Group as disclosed on page 58, and understood the reasons why balances exist that cannot besettled at NIFEX.
We have re-performed managements calculation of the rate change to verify the mechanical accuracy of the model used and agreed the figures presented to underlying transactions.
We have considered the disclosure around the impact of the change in rate on page 67.
We considered that managements conclusion to move to NIFEX from the CBN rate is reasonable.
Key observations We have reviewed the disclosures made on page 64 that summarise the impact of the judgement taken andthose matters noted above and consider them to be appropriate.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 43 Provision for uncertain tax positions The Group operates in a number of overseas territories, including some with rapidly developing or ambiguous Key audit matter tax legislation, and therefore the Group can be subject to unexpected or unsubstantiated tax assessments, description which have the potential to be material in nature.
Given this, there is a risk around the completeness and valuation of the potential exposures and, therefore, the tax provisions and disclosures required by the Group.
The accounting policy in relation to the provision at 31 May is on page 63 and the material current taxestimates of 13.5 m and 6.2 m are noted in Note 1 to the accounts.
We have evaluated the design and implementation of the key control relating to the tax provisions.
Our audit How the scope of our team included taxation specialists across corporation tax, transfer pricing and local tax laws.
In carrying out audit responded to our audit, we have understood and challenged the judgements taken by management, which are based on the key audit matter discussions and correspondence with local authorities, third party advice obtained and from in-house, local tax knowledge.
We have reviewed the disclosures made by management in Note 7 around the uncertain tax provisions.
Key observations We have concluded that the provisions held overall appear to be reasonable.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Materiality 4.0 m 1.6 m Basis for 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit.
The pre-tax profit figure Parent Company materiality equates to 1% of net assets, determining hasbeen adjusted for exceptional items only.
This has which is capped at 40% of Group materiality.
materiality been reconciled on page 47.
Rationale for the We consider an adjusted profit measure to be the most We consider the users of the accounts to be most benchmark applied relevant measure of performance for the primary users of interested in the net assets of the Company on the basis the accounts, being the shareholders.
This is on the basis that they will determine the extent to which dividends can that the adjusted profit before tax better reflects the be paid.
underlying nature and trading of the Group and therefore is considered to be a more representative basis upon which to determine materiality.
Group materiality 4.00m Adjusted profit Before Tax 80.10m Component materiality range 1.92m to 0.48m Audit Committee reporting threshold Adjusted profit Before Tax 0.20m Group materiality We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 200,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit & Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
44 P Z Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued An overview of the scope of our audit We developed a detailed audit transition plan, designed to deliver an effective transition from the Groups predecessor Auditor, PwC.
Our audit planning and transition commenced on 1 June 2017, when we confirmed our independence to the Groups Audit & Risk Committee.
Our transition activities were performed across the Group, and included but were not limited to meeting relevant partners and senior staff from PwC, shadowing PwC in the 2017 audit close meetings, attending the July 2017 Audit & Risk Committee meeting where the final report on the 2017 audit was presented and reviewing PwCs 2017 audit work papers.
In September 2017, we held an audit transition planning workshop with senior members of our component teams and members of the Group finance team in order to design our audit strategy and approach.
Our transition focused on obtaining an understanding of the Groups system of internal control, evaluating the Groups accounting policies and areas of accounting judgement and meeting with management across the Group to obtain an understanding of the business.
The Group has operations in 10 countries.
The most significant of the Groups operations are in the UK, Nigeria, Indonesia and Australia.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that all entities that contribute to the Group result would be included within our audit scope, apart from certain highly immaterial entities where Deloitte is not the appointed statutory Auditor.
Thishas resulted in coverage of 99% of Group revenue, 100% of Group profit before tax and 100% of Group net assets.
The materiality levels of the entities ranged from 1.92 m to 0.48 m depending on the contribution of the entitys operations to the Group and our assessment of risk relevant specific to each location.
The components based in the UK were audited by the Group engagement team.
For the overseas entities, the most significant entities, being those based in Nigeria, Australia and Indonesia, were visited throughout the year by the lead audit partner and or Group audit director.
Asignificant number of component teams were involved in our transition workshops and other transition activities, all of which were overseen and directed by the Group audit team.
Where an entity team was not involved in the transition workshops, that team was separately briefed on matters discussed.
Throughout the year, the Group audit team has been directly involved in overseeing the entity audit planning and execution, through visits, frequent conversations, team briefings, debate, challenge and review of reporting and underlying work papers.
In addition to our direct interactions, we sent detailed instructions to our entity audit teams, attended audit closing meetings via conference call and reviewed their audit working papers.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing included in the annual report, other than the Financial Statements and our Auditors report thereon.
to report in respect of these Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent matters.
otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, there are matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where it is concluded that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit & Risk Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the Auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 45 Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether dueto fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually orin the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these FinancialStatements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors report.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Report on Directors' Remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if in our opinion: We have nothing to report in we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or respect of these adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our matters.
audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of We have nothing Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Report on Directors' Remuneration to be to report in audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
46 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee, we were recommended by the Audit & Risk Committee forappointment at the AGM on 27 September 2017 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ending 31 May 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments ofthe firm is 1 year, covering the current financial year only.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit & Risk Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit & Risk Committee that we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Jane Boardman BSc FCA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Manchester, UK 24 July 2018
