INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF QINETIQ GROUP PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: QinetiQ Group plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 March 2018: the consolidated income statement and consolidated comprehensive income statement, the consolidated cash flow statement, and the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
Our audit approach Context In planning for our first-year audit of QinetiQ Group plc, we met with the Audit Committee and members of management across the business, to discuss and understand significant changes during the year, and to understand their perspectives on associated business risks.
We used this insight, in addition to our assessment of the previous auditors approach, when forming our own views regarding the business, as part of developing our audit plan.
The Group has continued to grow organically, embedding recent acquisitions.
We have considered this, as well as general market conditions, when scoping and performing our audit procedures.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 5.8 million based on approximately 5% of underlying profit before tax 2017: 5.5 million.
Previous auditors, KPMG, based this on 4.7% of profit before tax from continuing operations normalised for specific adjusting items M Ma ate ter riia alliit ty y Overall Company materiality: 4.8 million based on 1% of total assets.
We conducted full scope audit work in the UK over QinetiQ Limited, the main trading entity of the Group which provided Au Audi dit t significant coverage over all financial statement balances, except inventory s sc cope ope In addition, we performed the audit of specific inventory balances at two entities.
Long-term contract accounting Provisions and contingent liabilities K Ke ey y au audi dit t Impairment of goodwill and acquired intangibles m ma at tte ter rs s Accounting for tax research and development expenditure credits.
Corporate governance | Independent auditors report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Corporate Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF QINETIQ GROUP PLC CONTINUED The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group financial statements, including but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, UK tax legislation and Single Source Contracting Regulations.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with and reports to the regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Long-term contract accounting We evaluated the contract governance policies and controls in place within the business, and tested the Refer to page 56 Report of the Audit Committee design and operating effectiveness of key controls in place over long-term contracts.
and page 100 note 1, Significant accounting policies Revenue and Profit recognition and We performed risk assessment procedures over the portfolio of contracts to identify higher-risk page 101 note 2, Revenue.
These higher-risk contracts were selected for detailed contract reviews.
These detailed reviews involved meeting with key personnel to discuss contract performance, as well as obtaining evidence to QinetiQ Group plc have a large number of contracts support contract financials.
Specifically our procedures included the following: which span multiple periods and are accounted for We assessed the basis of revenue recognition to ensure it is in line with accounting standards on a percentage of completion POC basis.
We agreed overall anticipated revenue to the underlying contract and validated a sample of customer invoices through to cash receipt Long-term contracting accounting requires a We recalculated revenue recognised and agreed both revenue, costs and associated balance sheet number of judgements and management estimates positions to the underlying general ledger to be made, particularly calculating the forecast We obtained evidence to corroborate management estimates and judgements, particularly around costs to complete the contract.
These judgements costs to complete.
Where necessary, we obtained correspondence with the customer to evidence drive the revenue and profit recognition, and progress made on the contract during the year and remaining obligations.
together with cash paid by the customer, impact the balance sheet position at the year end.
We validated costs incurred and allocated to contracts during the year to supporting documentation on a Company wide basis.
Onerous contract provisions are recorded where there is an expectation that a contract will be For all remaining untested low-risk contracts, we selected a sample and performed testing over revenue, loss-making, and judgement is applied to determine agreeing to supporting documentation including customer contracts and validating a sample of the magnitude of any provision.
customer invoices to cash receipt.
Particular focus is given to contracts which are We agreed contract loss provisions recorded through a combination of the procedures above in respect technologically challenging, such as the of the overall outcome anticipated on the contract.
contract with ESA regarding the BepiColombo mission to Mercury.
Additional testing was performed, where not sufficiently covered by the above, over contract-related balance sheet positions.
These have been sample tested and agreed to supporting documentation.
No material exceptions were found.
82 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provisions and contingent liabilities We have assessed managements processes and controls over legal and regulatory claims and issues Refer to page 56 Report of the Audit Committee and made enquiries with in-house legal counsel.
and page 100 note 1, Significant accounting policies Other payables, provisions and We tested the appropriateness of managements assumptions by reference to third party evidence for contingent liabilities, page 114 note 23, Provisions key provisions recorded at the year end.
In doing this, we concluded on whether our understanding of the and page 129 note 32, Contingent liabilities business gained throughout the audit process corroborated the provisions recorded.
We challenged managements estimates of the most likely outcomes by critically evaluating the range of QinetiQ Group plc holds provisions in respect possible outcomes to determine if the amounts provided are appropriate.
of legal, regulatory and environmental issues.
Note: Project and contract related provisions are We assessed the adequacy of the Groups financial statement disclosures and adherence to covered within the long-term contract accounting accounting standards.
We found that the judgements formed by management were within an acceptable range and disclosures The Group operates in regulated environments and made in the financial statements were appropriate.
a failure to comply with particular regulations could result in fines and or penalties.
There is judgement required in determining the significance of any instances of potential non-compliance and potential liability based on managements assessment of the most likely outcome.
The financial statements should disclose any contingent liabilities in respect of contractual, regulatory or legal issues which have not been provided for on the basis that they are not considered to qualify for recognition as provisions.
Impairment of goodwill and acquired intangibles We have tested the principles and mathematical integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow model Refer to page 56 Report of the Audit Committee, used to assess goodwill and intangible assets for potential impairment.
With the assistance of our page 100 Note 1, Significant accounting valuation specialists, we assessed the growth and discount rates used in this impairment calculation, policies Business combinations and related by comparing the Groups assumptions to external data.
We concluded that the Groups assumptions goodwill, page 107 note 13, Goodwill and page were appropriate.
We challenged the cash flow projections used within the model by reference to current level of sales and The carrying value of goodwill associated with the analysis of managements historic forecasting accuracy.
US Global Products business was written down to its recoverable amount in the year ended 31 March We tested the sensitivity of the impairment calculation to changes in the underlying assumptions and 2016.
As a result, any deterioration in these concluded that there is sufficient headroom within the model such that no impairment is required.
projections or an increase in the discount rate applied may result in a further write-down We assessed whether the Groups disclosures regarding sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment being required.
assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
We are satisfied that the disclosures made in the financial statements are appropriate.
In addition, the business has a material amount of acquired intangible assets, including for recent acquisitions QinetiQ Target Systems Limited and RubiKon Group Pty Ltd.
There is an increased risk of impairment where the post-acquisition performance of businesses acquired is behind expectations from the time of the original acquisition.
Accounting for tax research and development We have assessed managements processes and controls over the management of tax positions.
expenditure credits Refer to page 56 Report of the Audit Committee, We used our tax specialists to challenge the appropriateness of managements assumptions and page 100 note 1, Significant accounting policies estimates in relation to tax positions, including RDEC, by critically assessing the range of possible Tax, page 105 note 8, Taxation and page 111 outcomes.
We obtained the latest correspondence with the relevant tax authorities to corroborate note 17, Deferred tax.
The level of current tax and deferred tax recognised We found that the judgements made by management were within an acceptable range.
requires judgement as to the likely outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities.
This We reviewed the disclosures made in respect of tax, in particular around estimates and uncertainties, and includes those related to specific tax allowances, are satisfied that the disclosures made were appropriate.
such as the UK Research and Development Expenditure Credit RDEC.
There is a risk that the key judgements on which the provisions are based do not take into account or do not properly reflect the latest available, reliable information or an appropriate application of relevant tax legislation, and are either under or overstated as a result.
Corporate governance | Independent auditors report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Corporate Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF QINETIQ GROUP PLC CONTINUED How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The only financially significant component within the Group is QinetiQ Limited.
The audit of this entitys complete financial information was performed by the Group audit team in the UK.
This provided sufficient coverage over all financial statement balances, except inventory.
We performed additional audit procedures over inventory balances at two further entities to ensure sufficient coverage over that financial statement line item.
One entity was located within the UK and work was performed by the Group audit team.
The other entity was located in the US and work was performed by our local PwC component audit team.
In addition to the above, we performed analytical procedures on the remaining entities to understand key balances and transactions in the year and performed additional procedures on any unusual balances identified.
The audit procedures performed over the complete financial information of QinetiQ Limited, accounted for 75% of total Group revenue KPMG 2017 coverage: 78% and 87% of underlying profit before taxation KPMG 2017 coverage: 87%.
These audit procedures, in addition to the specific audit procedures performed over inventory in two locations and goodwill and intangibles arising on acquisition, accounted for 91% of total Group assets KPMG 2017 coverage: 81%.
The combination of the work referred to above, together with additional procedures performed at Group level, including testing of significant journals posted within the consolidation and significant adjustments made to the financial statements, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Only one component auditor, located in the US, was involved in the audit as all other audit procedures were performed by the Group audit team.
The US business operates under a Proxy Board which is required to carry on business with the US Department of Defence.
This Proxy Board places certain restrictions on access to, and communication of, information outside of the US borders.
We planned our audit to ensure US personnel completed the audit work within the US and obtained approvals for transfer of information in advance of undertaking the audit work.
The Group engagement leader met and agreed the audit plan with our US component audit team, in addition to agreeing the format and content of communications.
We determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at this reporting entity to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
As the procedures performed by this component were limited to inventory only, this included discussion with the component team and attending the audit close meeting by conference call, at which the outcome of all audit findings was discussed.
The Company audit was performed by the Group audit team at QinetiQ Group plcs head office in the UK.
Audit procedures were performed over the complete financial information and disclosures for statutory audit purposes only.
Audit work over the Company was not required for the Group audit, as all significant balances within the Company are eliminated on consolidation.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 5.8 million 2017: 5.5 million.
How we determined it Approximately 5% of underlying profit before tax.
2017: Previous auditors, KPMG, used a benchmark of 4.7% of profit before tax from continuing operations normalised for specific adjusting items.
Rationale for benchmark applied Based on the benchmarks used in the Annual We believe that total assets is the primary measure used by Report, underlying profit before tax is one of the the shareholders in assessing the performance of this entity, primary measures used by the shareholders in and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark for non-trading assessing the performance of the Group, and is a entities.
This materiality relates to the audit for the statutory generally accepted auditing benchmark.
It is entity only, as the Company was not in scope for the considered appropriate to exclude specific Group audit.
adjusting items due to the nature of these balances as disclosed in note 4 of the financial statements.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 3.0 million and 5.3 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
84 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 290,000 Group audit 2017: 275,000 and 240,000 Company audit as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, because not all future events or material to add or draw attention to in respect of conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to the Directors statement in the financial statements continue as a going concern.
about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement We have nothing to report.
relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 53 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 27 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Corporate governance | Independent auditors report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Corporate Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF QINETIQ GROUP PLC CONTINUED Other Code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 53 that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit The section of the Annual Report on page 56 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
86 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 22 June 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
This is therefore our first year of uninterrupted engagement.
Julian Gray Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Southampton 24 May 2018 Corporate governance | Independent auditors report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Enabling disruptive technologies for our customers Dragonworks is QinetiQs new centre of excellence for the development and testing of advanced laser technology at our headquarters in Farnborough.
With a focus on innovation, this is a distinct example of how we are able to take an idea through the development process, from initial research to end user training.
The new facility will serve as a test bed for all technologies associated with highenergy lasers for military or commercial applications.
This introduces a brand new sovereign capability which will significantly enhance the UKs ability to operate high energy lasers.
We are investing in this asset as part of our strategy to modernise the UKs test and evaluation services, which will ensure our customers can keep pace with rapid technological advances and maintain their competitive edge.
The first project to be undertaken at the facility will be the assembly and testing of the laser directed energy weapon LDEW currently in development by the UKs Dragonfire consortium, led by MBDA.
The project will culminate in operation at full-power under test conditions inside the facility in summer 2018, before it is transported to MOD Shoeburyness for long-range outdoor trials.
QinetiQs Dragonworks facility helps our customers to understand the opportunities and challenges associated with this disruptive technology, informing their critical strategic and tactical decisions.
88 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Consolidated income statement 90 Consolidated comprehensive income statement 91 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 91 Consolidated balance sheet 92 Consolidated cash flow statement 93 Reconciliation of movements in net cash 93 Notes to the financial statements 94 Company balance sheet 131 Company statement of changes in equity 132 Notes to the Company financial statements 133 Five-year record 135 Financial statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89
