Independent auditors report to the members of Quilter plc 1: Our opinion is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of Quilter plc the Materiality: 11m Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise Group financial statementsas a whole 4% of normalised profit before tax from continuing theconsolidated income statement, consolidated statement of operations PBTCO comprehensive income, reconciliation of adjusted profit to profit Coverage 90% of Group profit before tax aftertax, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of financial position and consolidated of cash flows, Key audit matters Company statements of financial position, cash flows and changes Event driven Brexit Uncertainties in equity and the related notes, including theaccounting policies Recurring risks Valuation of level 3 financial investments in note 4. oftheGroup Valuation of long-term business insurance policyholder liabilities In our opinion: Valuation of the voluntary customer remediation the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the provision Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 Valuation of goodwill and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Parent Company risk: Valuation of investments the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in ingroup subsidiaries accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the Directors in advance of our firstaudit for the year ended 31 December 2018 prior to the Company becoming a public interest entity.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 as a public-interest entity and 11 years in total.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Financial statements | Independent auditors report Quilter Annual Report 2018 89 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Quilter plc 2: Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Wesummarise below the key audit matters in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and our findings from those procedures in order that the Companys members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
These matters were addressed, and our findings are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response The impact of uncertainties due Unprecedented levels of uncertainty Our procedures included: to the UK exiting the European All audits assess and challenge the We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the Union on our audit reasonableness of estimates, in particular consideration of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning Refer to page 33 principal risks, asdescribed in the valuation of level 3 andperforming our audits.
Our procedures included: page 200 viability statement, investments and the valuation of goodwill, and Our Brexit knowledge: We considered the directors assessment page 60 Board Risk Committee related disclosures and the appropriateness of Brexit-related sources of risk for the Groups business and Report and page 54 Audit ofthe going concern basis of preparation of financial resources compared with our own understanding of the Committee Report.
All of these depend risks.
We considered the directors plans totake action to mitigate onassessments of the future economic the risks.
environment and the groups future prospects Sensitivity analysis: When addressing the valuation of goodwill and performance.
In addition, we are required and other areas that depend on forecasts, we compared the to consider the other information presented directors analysis to our assessment of the full range of reasonably inthe Annual Report including the principal risks possible scenarios resulting from Brexit uncertainty and, where disclosure and the viability statement andto forecast cash flows are required to be discounted, considered consider the directors statement thatthe adjustments to discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.
annual report and financial statements taken Assessing transparency: As well as assessing individual asa whole is fair, balanced and understandable disclosures as part of our procedures on the valuation of level 3 and provides the information necessary for investments and the valuation of goodwill, we considered all of the shareholders to assess the Groups position, Brexit related disclosures together, including those in the strategic performance and business model.
report, comparing the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
Brexit is one of the most significant economic events for the UK and at the date ofthis report Our findings its effects are subject to unprecedented levels As reported under the valuation of level 3 investments and the of uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range valuation of goodwill, we found the resulting estimates and related of possible effects unknown.
disclosures of the valuation of level 3 investments, the valuation of goodwill and disclosures in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
Valuation of level 3 Subjective valuation Our procedures included: financialinvestments A subjective estimate exists for financial Methodology choice: We critically assessed the valuation 2018: 1,154m: 2017: 1,169m instruments where an objective external price methodologies applied by the Group against current market Refer to page 107 accounting does not exist, or where such a price is not best practice.
policy and page 147 financial readily observable, which is principally the case Our sector experience: We challenged all key inputs and disclosures for level 3 financial instruments.
assumptions used by the Group in the applied valuation methodology such as estimated market movements and expected There is a significant risk associated with level 3 cash flows with reference to our own independent expectations, financial instruments within the Wealth Platforms which were based on similar instruments in the market and our segment due to the application of valuation industry knowledge and experience.
techniques which involve judgement and the Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of use of assumptions and estimates.
thedisclosures including the description of the fair value measurement process and whether the sensitivity to key The effect of these matters is that, as part of inputsappropriately reflects the Groups exposure to financial our risk assessment, we determined that the instruments valuation risk.
valuation of level 3 financial investments has ahigh degree of estimation uncertainty, with Our findings apotential range of reasonable outcomes We found the resulting valuations in relation to the level 3 financial greater than our materiality for the financial investments to be balanced with proportionate disclosures of the statements as a whole, and possibly many related assumptions and sensitivities.
The financial statements note 22 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
90 Quilter Annual Report 2018 2: Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Valuation of long-term Subjective valuation Our procedures included: businessinsurance Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities Control design: We evaluated the controls over the measurement  within the Wealth Platforms segment involves and management of the Groups calculation of insurance liabilities.
2018: 602m: 2017: 489m significant judgement in the choice of We challenged Groups own analysis of change to assess the Refer to page 109 accounting assumptions applied in determining the ultimate explanations provided aligned with our expectations and wider policy and page 159 financial total settlement value of long-term policyholder business understanding.
We considered the valuation model disclosures liabilities.
Economic assumptions, such as output for key products to validate that the key drivers of the discount rates, and operating assumptions, insurance liabilities are being modelled correctly.
such as mortality and morbidity, persistency Our sector experience: We considered the Groups approach and expenses are the key inputs used in the tosetting assumptions and assessed whether it is consistent with valuation of these long term liabilities.
industry practice and the Groups documented approval process.
Our actuarial expertise: We utilised our own actuarial specialists The effect of these matters is that, as part of to assist us in assessing and challenging certain assumptions used our risk assessment, we determined that the in the actuarial models and the process for setting and updating valuation of long term business insurance these assumptions.
This included assessing the data used in the policyholder liabilities has a high degree of Groups analysis to set assumptions, in the context of our own estimation uncertainty, with a potential range industry knowledge, external data and our views of experience ofreasonable outcomes greater than our todate.
materiality for the financial statements as a Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of the whole, and possibly many times that amount.
disclosures in relation to the long-term policyholder liabilities.
The financial statements note 29 disclose the sensitivities estimated by the Group.
Our findings We found the valuation of the long-term business insurance policyholder liabilities to be mildly optimistic with proportionate disclosures of the related assumptions and sensitivities.
Valuation of the voluntary Subjective estimate Our procedures included: customer remediation provision The voluntary customer redress provision Governance considerations: We attended recent governance 2018: 38m: 2017: 69m relates to payments to the subset of protection forums to understand the status of programme planning Refer to page 117 accounting plan holders and associated programme costs andtheDirectors views on the key areas of uncertainty.
policy and page 162 financial within the Wealth Platforms segment Model interrogation: We assessed the latest model to determine disclosures significant.
The risk relates to the uncertainty of whether the results produced were in line with the Groups the estimates and assumptions used and the intentions in respect of the approved methodology.
methodology employed in determining the Our sector experience: We assessed the application of amount of provision to be recognised and or accounting policies adopted by the Group for the recognition disclosed under IAS 37 Provisions, contingent oftheprovision.
We assessed and challenged the Groups liabilities and contingent assets.
methodology and the assumptions applied in arriving at the provision.
We considered the appropriateness of adjustments The key estimates and assumptions in relation made to the provision to reflect latest expectations.
to the provision are: Assumptions: We challenged the assumptions applied in The various assumptions included in the themodels and challenged the sensitivity analyses prepared modelled amounts to be repaid, including bytheGroups actuary in respect of interest rates and timing.
interest rates, time taken for remediation Weconsidered the basis for the various overlays established tocommence and plans in scope: andcorroborated assumptions as far as possible in respect of The judgemental overlays established to similar past experience.
cover additional uncertainties in respect Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the disclosures ofknown data issues, potential complaints made in relation to the recognition, estimation uncertainty and and broader market movements which could presentation of the provision were appropriate.
impact plan valuations: and The programme costs of carrying out the Our findings remaining remediation activity, in particular We found the estimates in relation to the valuation of the voluntary how much external support is required in client redress provision to be cautious with proportionate disclosures delivering the remediation to policyholders.
of the related assumptions and sensitivities.
The effect of these matters is that, as part ofour risk assessment, we determined that the valuation of the voluntary customer remediation provision has a high degree ofestimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements asa whole.
The financial statements note 30 discloses the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
Financial statements | Independent auditors report Quilter Annual Report 2018 91 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Quilter plc 2: Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Valuation of goodwill Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: 2018: 314m: 2017: 306m Goodwill is significant and the determination Our sector experience and benchmarking assumptions: Refer to page 115 accounting ofthe recoverable amount of each reportable Wechallenged the cash flow forecasts, including the consistency policy and page 139 financial segment is complex and involves a high level of forecasts applied across the Group.
The significant judgements arise We utilised our own corporate finance specialists to assist us in over the discount rate, growth rate and cash challenging the key assumptions and methodologies applied by the flow forecasts which are key inputs in the Group in the determination of discount rates, with reference to our valuation of goodwill.
own independent expectations, which were based on our industry knowledge and experience.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of Comparing valuations and historical assumptions: our risk assessment, we determined that the Wecompared forecasts to approved business plans and also valuation of goodwill has a high degree of previous forecasts to actual results to assess the performance of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range the business and the accuracy of forecasting.
We also considered ofreasonable outcomes greater than our the appropriateness of the scenarios used in the context of our materiality for the financial statements as a wider business understanding.
whole, and possibly many times that amount.
Sensitivity analysis: We performed sensitivity analyses on the The financial statements note 16 disclose the key assumptions in the Advice and Wealth Management and sensitivity estimated by the Group.
Wealth Platforms cash generating units.
Assessing transparency: We assessed that the adequacy of thedisclosures in relation to goodwill appropriately reflect the associated risks and the disclosures in relation to the sensitivity ofthe goodwill balance to changes in key assumptions.
Our findings We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of goodwill was balanced with proportionate disclosures of the related assumptions and sensitivities.
Parent Company risk: Low risk, high value Our procedures included Valuation of investments The carrying amount of the Parent Companys Tests of detail: We compared the carrying amount of a sample ingroup subsidiaries investments in subsidiaries represents 79% ofthe highest value investments, representing 97% of the total 2018: 2,663m: 2017: 2,069m ofthe Parent Companys total assets.
The investment balance with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance Refer to page 106 accounting recoverability is not at a high risk of significant sheets to identify whether their net assets, being an approximation policy and page 192 financial misstatement or subject to significant of their minimum recoverable amount, were in excess of their disclosures judgement.
However, due to their materiality carrying amount.
inthe context of the Parent Company financial We assessed the recoverable value for investments, representing statements, this is considered to be the area 97% of the total investment balance using cash flow forecasts.
ofgreatest audit effort in our overall Parent Procedures performed over cash flow forecasts and the related Company audit.
assumptions are described in the section on valuation of goodwill above.
Assessing subsidiary audits: As Group auditors, we assessed the work performed by the subsidiary audit teams on that sample of those subsidiaries and considered the results of that work, onthose subsidiaries profits and net assets.
Our findings We found the valuation of investments in group subsidiaries tobebalanced.
92 Quilter Annual Report 2018 3: Our application of materiality and an overview ofthescope of our audit Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at Normalised PBTCO Group Materiality 11million, determined with reference toa benchmark of group profit 279m 11m before tax attributable to equity holders normalised by 116 million to 11m exclude any goodwill impairment and impact of acquisition accounting, Whole financial business transformation costs and managed separation costs as statements materiality disclosed in note 7, of which it represents 4%.
2017: 10m Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole wasset at 9 million, determined with reference to a benchmark 9m Range of materiality at 9 oftotal assets.
components 2m to 9m 2017: 2m to 9m We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.55 million, 0.55m inaddition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting Misstatements reported on qualitative grounds.
Normalised PBTCO to the Audit Committee 2017: 0.5m Group materiality Of the Groups 9 reporting components, we subjected 8 to full scope audits for group purposes and 1 to the audit of specific account Group revenue Group profit before tax balances.
The latter was not individually financially significant enough to require a full scope audit for group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
14 20 The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
96% 90% The remaining 4% of total group revenue, 10% of group profit before tax and 1% of total group assets is represented by non-reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 1%ofany of total group revenue, group profit before tax or total group 82 90 assets.
For these residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
Group total assets Normalised PBTCO The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and 8 theinformation to be reported back.
The Group team approved the 30 component materialities, which ranged from 2 million to 9 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across thecomponents.
The work on 8 of the 9 components was performed 99% 100% by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
The group team 80 performed procedures on the normalising adjustments.
70 91 Of the Groups 9 reporting components, 7 components are UK based.
For the remaining components, the Group team visited 1 component location in Isle of Man to assess the audit risks and strategy.
Video and Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 telephone conference meetings were also held with all component specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 auditors including those that were not physically visited.
At these visits Residual components and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
Financial statements | Independent auditors report Quilter Annual Report 2018 93 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Quilter plc 4: We have nothing to report on going concern Strategic report and directors report The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going Based solely on our work on the other information: concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or to we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report cease its operations, and as they have concluded that the Group and and the directors report: the Companys financial position means that this is realistic.
They have in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have year is consistent with the financial statements: and cast significant doubt over its ability to continue as a going concern for in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements the Companies Act 2006. the going concern period.
Directors remuneration report Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty beaudited has been properly prepared in accordance with the related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability judgements that were reasonable at the time theywere made, the Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements absence of reference to a material uncertainty inthis auditors report audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: isnot a guarantee that the Company will continue in operation.
the directors confirmation within the Groups viability statement onpage 200 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten inherent risks to the Groups business model, including the impact its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: ofBrexit, and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going how they are being managed and mitigated: and concern period.
We evaluated those risks and concluded that they the directors explanation in the Groups viability statement of how were not significant enough to require us to perform additional they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period auditprocedures.
they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of tothe directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements on their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Groups useofthat basis for a period of at least twelve months from Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability thedateof approval of the financial statements: or statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 102 ismaterially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events going concern as a key audit matter.
may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything 5: We have nothing to report on the other to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and information inthe Annual Report Companys longer-term viability.
The directors are responsible for the other information presented inthe Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Ouropinion on Corporate governance disclosures the financial statements does not cover the other information and, We are required to report to you if: accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, andprovides the information necessary for shareholders to assess theinformation therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on thatwork the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit we have not identified material misstatements in the otherinformation.
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Quilter Annual Report 2018 94 Quilter Annual Report 2018 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters Firstly, the group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect on which we are required to report by exception the financial statements including financial reporting legislation Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation inour opinion: and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received financial statement items.
from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Secondly, the group is subject to many other laws and regulations Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material with the accounting records and returns: or effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the notmade: or groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as those we have not received all the information and explanations we require most likely to have such an effect: health and safety, anti-bribery, for our audit.
employment law, regulatory capital and liquidity and certain aspects ofcompany legislation recognising the financial and regulated nature We have nothing to report in these respects.
ofthe groups activities and its legal form.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws 7.
Respective responsibilities and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other management and Directors responsibilities inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 198, procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
thedirectors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom view:such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable weowe our responsibilities the preparation of financial statements that are free from material This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and andparent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, the terms of our engagement by the Company.
Our audit work has as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, orhave no and the further matters we are required to state to them in accordance realistic alternative but to do so.
with the terms agreed with the Company and for no other purpose.
Tothe fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Auditors responsibilities responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, opinions we have formed.
whether due to fraud, other irregularities see below, or error, and toissue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance isahigh level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually Jonathan Mills orin aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence Senior Statutory Auditor theeconomic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs 15 Canada Square website at www.
London E14 5GL Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be 11 March 2019 expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from ourgeneral commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the groups regulatory and legalcorrespondence and discussed with the directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance withlaws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
Financial statements | Independent auditors report Quilter Annual Report 2018 95
