Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To The Members Of The Rank Group Plc Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Opinion Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
In our opinion: Our responsibilities under those standards are further The Rank Group Plcs Group financial statements and described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the parent company financial statements the financial financial statements section of our report below.
We are statements give a true and fair view of the state of the independent of the group and parent company in accordance Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, the Group financial statements have been properly and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in preparedin accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the accordance with these requirements.
European Union: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is the parent company financial statements have been sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the Conclusions relating to principal risks, provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and going concern and viability statement the financial statements have been prepared in accordance We have nothing to report in respect of the following with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as information in the annual report, in relation to which the regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have IAS Regulation.
anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 42 to We have audited the financial statements of The Rank Group 46 that describe the principal risks and explain how they Plc which comprise: are being managed or mitigated: Group Parent company the directors confirmation set out on page 42 in the annual Balance sheet Balance sheet report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the as at 30June 2018 as at 30 June 2018 principal risks facing the entity, including those that would Group income statement Statement of changes in threaten its business model, future performance, solvency for the year then ended equity for the year or liquidity: then ended Group statement of Statement of cash flows for the directors statement set out on page 43 in the financial comprehensive income for the year then ended statements about whether they considered it appropriate to the year then ended adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties Statement of changes in Related notes 1 to 34 to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of equity for the year to the financial statements at least twelve months from the date of approval of the then ended including a summary financial statements of significant accounting policies whether the directors statement in relation to going Statement of cash flow for concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance the year then ended with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Related notes 1 to 34 to the financial statements, the directors explanation set out on page 43 in the annual including a summary report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the of significant entity, over what period they have done so and why they accounting policies consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the The financial reporting framework that has been applied in entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its their preparation is applicable law and International Financial liabilities as they fall due over the period of their Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European assessment, including any related disclosures drawing Union and, as regards the parent company financial attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
102 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Impairment of tangible and intangible assets and adequacy of property lease provisions Indirect tax risk exposure Exceptional items Revenue recognition including the risk of management override Compliance with Laws and Regulations Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 17 components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 99% 2016 17:100% of Profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items, 100% 2016 17: 100% of Revenue and 100% 2016 17: 100% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall group materiality of 3.7million which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Changes from the prior year Given that the legal and licencing framework for digital gaming remains an area of focus for the UK Gambling Commission, we have included compliance with laws and regulations as a Key audit matter.
Key observations communicated tothe Audit Risk Our response to the risk Committee Impairment of tangible and intangible assets and Overall Group level: The net adequacy of property lease provisions impairment charge We updated our understanding of managements annual of 12.1 million is Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 67 : impairment testing process.
appropriately Accounting policies page 120 : and Note 12 of the We ensured that the methodology of the impairment exercise recognised.
Consolidated Financial Statements page 133 continues to be consistent with the requirements of IAS 36 We highlighted At 30 June 2018 the carrying value of tangible and Impairment of Assets as well as checked the mathematical accuracy that a reasonably intangible assets was 630.6 million 2016 17: 599.4 of the models.
possible change million, 406.7 million of which relate to indefinite The audit team focussed on completing audit work on the key in certain key life intangible assets primarily casino and other judgements used by management and work performed in assumptions gaming licences or goodwill.
conducting their impairment review and challenged the including future conclusions reached.
cash flows, Impairment of tangible and intangible assets Below we summarise the procedures performed in relation to the growth rates and key judgements for the tangible and intangible assets impairment In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, earnings multiples review.
management disclosed that in addition to the underpinning the impairment charge of 13.9 million 10.5m in We analysed managements forecasts underlying the impairment forecasts for certain relation to tangible assets and 3.4m to intangible review against current performance and economic forecasts and CGUs could lead assets and impairment reversal of 1.8 million 0.6m corroborate them back to budgetsapproved by the Board thus to additional in relation to tangible assets and 1.2m in relation to providing support thatthe forecasts utilised are reasonable and impairment.
intangible assets, a reasonably possible change in align to expected results.
customer visits, win margins or spend per head could Critically challenged managements historical accuracy of lead to impairments in other Cash Generating Units forecasting through comparing prior year actual performance CGU where no impairment is currently recognised.
against forecast performance and corroborating the reasons for This is an area of focus due to the significance of the deviations.
carrying value of the assets being assessed and due to We also performed sensitivity analysis on earnings multiples for the level of management judgement required in the all CGUs and growth rates applied to cash flows for certain CGUs assumptions impacting the impairment assessment.
to determine the parameters that should they arise, may give a The main assumptions are the future results of the different conclusion as to the carrying value of assets assessed.
business including future cash flows, growth rates and In addition, we worked with our EY internal corporate finance earnings multiples applied to cash flows as well as valuation specialists to: discount rates.
Validate and corroborate the discount rates to supportingevidence and corroborated these to industry averages trends Independently calculated the discount rates that should be applied in the impairment model.
Additional procedure performed at each CGU level: We compared the individual CGU projections to historic performance and observable external trends and corroborated the reasons for deviations to third party evidence as appropriate.
com | 103 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued Key observations communicated tothe Audit Risk Our response to the risk Committee Property lease provisions Procedures in relation to Property lease provisions: We concluded that the property In addition, the Group holds a provision for property We understood managements process for identifying onerous provisions leases of36.0 million 2016 17: 24.6 million for leases and validated that the inputs to the calculations for onerous recognised are unoccupied properties and properties which are lease provisions were appropriate.
Below we summarise the procedures performed in relation to the In accordance with IAS 37, management recognised a key judgements and validation of inputs, this included: charge of12.8 million for additional provisions.
Checked underlying calculations and agreed key inputs to third Indetermining the appropriate level of provision party evidence including lease agreements and invoices for rent required, management judgement is required in and rates.
assessing whether the costs provided represent Assessed the period and recoverability of sub-let income included thelower of the cost of fulfilling the contract and any in the provision.
compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil Compared forecast earnings per CGU to historic performance, thecontract.
todetermine whether appropriate provision had been made.
There is further judgement in relation to the amount of sub-let income and period for which sub-let income Assessed whether the appropriate discount rate had been applied can be obtained where properties are vacant or the by checked the discount rate to external market data.
extent to which lease obligations are covered by earnings generated.
We therefore consider there is a higher likelihood that a material misstatement could arise as there is a risk that these provisions may be incorrectly valued.
Indirect tax risk exposure 213.9 million We updated our understanding of the process for preparing the We conclude that contributed to indirect taxes, 2016 17: partial exemption calculation, and assessed the controls that the positions taken 224.3million management has in place to prevent and detect errors in this by management are calculation.
appropriate and Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 68 : accurately reflected Accounting policies page 121 : and Note 21 of the We worked with our EY indirect taxation specialists to assistus in the financial Consolidated Financial Statements page 143 in inspecting the technical support for indirect taxsubmissions.
results and Indirect tax is a complex area in the betting and To corroborate managements position in relation to uncertain appropriate gaming industry, specifically with reference to VAT tax positions, we reviewed correspondence received from tax disclosure relating to Partial exemption, Gaming Duty, Remote authorities during the period.
This furtheraids our completeness Gaming Duty, Bingo Duty and other indirect duties.
We have further involved our specialists in assessing We focus on this to ensure that allchanges to the implications ofmatters subject to correspondence received legislation and rates levied have been correctlyapplied.
Given the judgement in estimating amounts payable Performed a completeness review of effected changes in indirect to regulatory authorities in certain jurisdictions there is tax legislation and discussed all changes with management to a risk that additional liabilities are not identified and ensure that they had been appropriately considered and where thus amounts recorded related to indirect taxation are relevant reflected within the financial statements.
Exceptional items 27.5 million, 2016 17: We agreed material exceptional items to .
Exceptional items 1.0 million credit have been disclosed We also validated that the exceptional items are classified as such in accordance with Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 67 : in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
the Groups Accounting policies page 121 : and Note 4 of the We also performed an assessment of costs that had been included accounting policy.
Consolidated Financial Statements page 125 within the exceptional restructuring charge to validate that they The application of the Groups accounting policy for were associated to the restructuring and therefore classified exceptional items requires judgement by management appropriately as an exceptional item.
and careful consideration needs to be given to the nature and magnitude of these items to ensure consistency in approach between periods.
Due to the magnitude and volatility within the disclosure judgement is exercised by management in determining the classification of items as adjusting items, we consider there to be a potential for inappropriate classification of costs as exceptional items.
In the current year management have recognised net exceptional charge of 27.5 million comprising of a net charge of property provisions of 12.8 million, net impairment charge of 12.1 million, restructuring costs of 1.6 million, Acquisition related costs of 0.4 million and finance costs of 0.6 million.
104 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Key observations communicated tothe Audit Risk Our response to the risk Committee Revenue recognition 691.0m, 2016 17: 707.2m Our procedures were designed to corroborate our assessment that We concluded revenue should be closely correlated to cash banked for the Retail thatrevenue Refer to the Audit Committee Report page N A : business, and to customer balances and cash for the Digital recognition, and Accounting policies page 117 : and Note 2 of the business, and to identify the manual adjustments that are made to adjustments to Consolidated Financial Statements page 122 revenue for further testing.
revenue, are Our assessment is that the significant majority of appropriate.
We updated our understanding of the revenue processes and tested revenue transactions, for both the venues and digital certain key financial and IT controls over the recognition and businesses, are non-complex, with no judgement measurement of revenue.
applied over the amount recorded.
We consider there is a potential for management override to achieve We used our computer aided analytics tools to perform a revenue targets via topside manual journal entries correlation analysis to identify the extent to which revenue was posted to revenue.
linked to cash for UK venues and customer balances forDigital, then investigated and obtained explanations for those items above Revenue could be inaccurately stated as a result.
a specified threshold where this was not thecase.
We also verified the recognition and measurement of revenue by tracing a sample of transactions, selected at random, throughout the year to cash banked to verify the accuracy of reported revenue.
For venues, we attended and re-performed cash counts at a sample of twenty four casino and bingo venues, selected using a risk based approach and also included a random sample, at year end to verify the appropriate cut-off of revenue.
For Digital, we reconciled the year-end customer balances tothe system report, which was tested for completeness andaccuracy.
Using data extracted from the accounting system, we tested the appropriateness of journal entries impacting revenue, as well as other adjustments made in the preparation of the financial statements.
We identified and tested specific journals such as those manually posted directly to revenue, outside of expected hours, or by unexpected individuals and for large or unusual amounts.
Compliance with laws and regulations We have understood the Groups process and related controls over We concluded that the identification and mitigation of regulatory and legal risks and management have Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 64 : the related accounting.
appropriately Accounting policies page N A : and Note N A of the assessed the financial Consolidated Financial Statements page N A We reviewed regulatory correspondence and enquiries made implications for through the year, managements response and their assessment of The legal and licensing framework for Digital gaming non-compliance potential exposure as at 30 June 2018. remains an area of focus for the UK Gambling with laws and Commission with plans in the coming year to review We inquired of management and in house counsel, about any regulations.
the sufficiency of the applicable provisions in the instances of material breaches in regulatory or licence compliance current License Conditions and Codes of Practice that needed to be disclosed or required accruals to be recorded.
which also covers responsible gambling.
Where provisions have been raised, we have assessed management The evolving environment, with territory specific best estimate for the provisions against available external and regulations, makes compliance an increasingly internal support.
complex area with potential for fines and or licence withdrawal for non-compliance.
Operators are further required to meet anti-money .
com | 105 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued An overview of the scope of our audit Total revenue Coverage CY PY Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
Full scope components 91% 91% In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group Specic scope components 9% 9% financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate Review scope components -% -% quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the thirty five reporting components of the Group, we selected twenty-three components covering Total Assets Coverage CY PY entities within the United Kingdom, Alderney, Spain, Belgium and Gibraltar, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the twenty-three components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining seventeen components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
Full scope components 75% 81% Of the remaining twelve components that together represent Specic scope components 25% 19% 1% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for exceptional Review scope components -% -% items, none are individually greater than 0.7% of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items.
For these Changes from the prior year components, we performed other procedures, including Our scoping remains unchanged from the prior year with the analytical review, testing of consolidation journals, exception of the allocation of a specific scope audit for intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translations Bingosoft plc, since the YoBingo Group was acquired during to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the year.
Integrated team structure The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we work performed by our audit teams.
determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit Total profit before tax engagement team, or by component under our instruction.
adjusted for exceptional Ofthe six full scope components, audit procedures were items Coverage CY PY performed on all six of these directly by the primary audit team.
For the seventeen specific scope components, specific audit procedures were performed directly by the audit team for nine of these components.
The remaining eight specific components contributing 4% of Profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items, 5% of revenue and 5% of total assets are based in Spain where the work was performed by component auditors.
In relation to the specific scope component in Spain, the Senior Statutory Auditor was also involved in the risk Full scope components 63% 62% assessment and determining which accounts were in scope Specic scope components 36% 38% and attended the audit closing meeting by conference call, Review scope components 1% -% made specific enquiries of local management and reviewed the summary audit findings reported by the local audit team.
106 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS Our application of materiality Reporting threshold We apply the concept of materiality in planning and An amount below which identified misstatements are performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified considered as being clearly trivial.
misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.2m Materiality 2016 17: 0.2m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.7 million our opinion.
2016 17: 3.9 million, which is 5% 2016 17: 5% of profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items.
We consider this to Other information be the most relevant performance measure to stakeholders The other information comprises the information included in and is the primary measure of earnings.
the annual report set out on pages 1 to 99, including the five We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be year review set out on page 154 and the shareholder 5.3million 2016 17: 5.8 million, which is 1% 201617: 1% information set out on pages 155 to 156.
The directors are of equity.
The Parent Company has a higher materiality than the responsible for the other information.
Group as the basis of determining materiality are different.
The Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Parent Company is a non-trading entity and as such, equity is other information and, except to the extent otherwise the most relevant measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Profit before tax for the year ended 30 June 2018 In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our 46.7 million Starting responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing basis so, consider whether the other information is materially Net impairment charge 12.1 million inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge Net charge from onerous leases 12.8 million obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially Group restructuring costs 1.6 million misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or Adjustments Other financial costs 0.6 million apparent material misstatements, we are required to Acquisition costs 0.4 million determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other Profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we basis for materiality 74.2 million conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other Materiality 5% of profit before tax adjusted for Materiality exceptional items 3.7 million.
information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in Performance materiality the other information and to report as uncorrected material The application of materiality at the individual account or balance misstatements of the other information where we conclude level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level that those items meet the following conditions: the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 99 misstatements exceeds materiality.
the statement given by the directors that they consider the On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was fair, balanced and understandable and provides the that performance materiality was 50% 2016 17: 50% of our information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups planning materiality, namely 1.9m 2016 17: 2.0m.
We have performance, business model and strategy, is materially set performance materiality at this percentage to take into account inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the inherently high risk nature of the industry in which the Audit committee reporting set out on page 63 the Group operates.
We have also taken into consideration changes section describing the work of the audit committee does within the Group and the impact this could have on the not appropriately address matters communicated by us to operations of the Group.
Our objective in adopting this approach the audit committee: or was to conclude that undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level.
Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 58 the parts Audit work at component locations for the purpose of of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total Governance Code containing provisions specified for review performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the the UK Corporate Governance Code.
risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.4 million to 1.0 million 2016 17: 0.1m to 1.1m.
com | 107 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Responsibilities of directors Act 2006 As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 99, the directors are responsible for In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report the preparation of the financial statements and for being to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such the Companies Act 2006. internal control as the directors determine is necessary to In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course enable the preparation of financial statements that are free of the audit: from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
the information given in the strategic report and the In preparing the financial statements, the directors are directors report for the financial year for which the responsible for assessing the group and parent companys financial statements are prepared is consistent with the ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as financial statements and those reports have been prepared applicable, matters related to going concern and using the in accordance with applicable legal requirements: going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either the information about internal control and risk intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to management systems in relation to financial reporting cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
processes and about share capital structures, given in Auditors responsibilities for the audit of compliance with rules 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure the financial statements Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about Financial Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is consistent whether the financial statements as a whole are free from with the financial statements and has been prepared in material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and accordance with applicable legal requirements: and toissue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
information about the companys corporate governance Reasonableassurance is a high level of assurance, but is not code and practices and about its administrative, aguarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs management and supervisory bodies and their committees UK will always detect a material misstatement when it complies with rules 7.2.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, Matters on which we are required to report theycould reasonably be expected to influence the by exception economicdecisions of users taken on the basis of these In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group financial statements.
and the parent company and its environment obtained in the Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered course of the audit, we have not identified material capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud misstatements in: The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify the strategic report or the directors report: or and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial the information about internal control and risk statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit management systems in relation to financial reporting evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement processes and about share capital structures, given in due to fraud, through designing and implementing compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the FCA Rules appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the report to you if, in our opinion: entity and management.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company 108 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial STATEMENTS A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of Our approach was as follows: the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory Councils website at https: www.
uk frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined .
This description forms part of our that the most significant are the Companies Act 2006, the auditors report.
UK Gambling Commission, Gambling Act 2005, Money Laundering regulations, The Alderney Gambling Control Other matters we are required to address Commission and License Conditions & The Code of We were appointed by the company on 22 April 2010 Practice 2008.
In addition, we concluded that there are toaudit the financial statements for the year ending certain significant laws and regulations which may have an 31December 2010 and subsequent financial periods.
effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the UK The period of total uninterrupted engagement including Listing Authority, and those laws and regulations relating to previous renewals and reappointments is nine years, data protection.
covering the years ending 30 December 2010 to 30June 2018.
We have included compliance with laws and regulations as a key audit matter and our audit response to the legal The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical and licensing framework for digital gaming is set out above.
Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain independent of the group and the We understood how The Rank Group Plc is complying with parent company in conducting the audit.
those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report procedures and the company secretary.
We corroborated to the audit committee our enquiries through our review of board minutes, papers provided to the Audit and Risk Committees and Use of our report correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as abody, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken statements to material misstatement, including how fraud sothat we might state to the companys members those might occur by meeting with management within various matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report parts of the business to understand where they considered and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone performance targets and their influence on efforts made by other than the company and the companys members as a management to manage earnings or influence the body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions perceptions of analysts.
Where this risk was considered to we have formed.
be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable Julie Carlyle Senior statutory auditor assurance that the financial statements were free from for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor fraudor error.
London Based on this understanding we designed our audit 15 August 2018 procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures included a review of board minutes to identify any noncompliance with laws and regulations, a review of the reporting to the Audit Committee on compliance with regulations, enquiries of the Director of Legal Services and enquiries of management.
The Group operates in the gaming industry which is a highly regulated environment.
As such the Senior Statutory Auditor reviewed the experience and expertise of the engagement team to ensure that the team had the appropriate competence and capabilities, which included the use of an expert where appropriate.
As the gaming industry is highly regulated, we have obtained an understanding of the regulations and the potential impact on the Group and in assessing the control environment we have considered the compliance of the Group to these regulations as part of our audit procedures, which included a review of correspondence received from the regulator.
