Consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc 1 Our opinion is unmodified 2 Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement We have audited the financial statements of Rathbone Brothers Plc the company, and its subsidiaries together the Group, Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statements and include the most significant assessed risks of statement of changes in equity, consolidated balance sheet, material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified consolidated statement of cash flows, company statement by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the of changes in equity, company balance sheet and company overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: statement of cash flows, and the related notes, including and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise the accounting policies in notes 1 and 41. below the key audit matters, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those In our opinion: matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial then ended: statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do in accordance with International Financial Reporting not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : New The impact of uncertainties due to UK exiting the the company financial statements have been properly European Union on our audit prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU Refer to page 37 risk management report and page 71 audit and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the committee report Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance The risk Unprecedented levels of uncertainty with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness of estimates, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the in particular as described in the key audit matters below IAS Regulation.
including i accounting for acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd and ii considering the impairment of client relationship intangibles, Basis for opinion and related disclosures and the appropriateness of the going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements.
All We conducted our audit in accordance with International of these depend on assessments of the future economic Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
environment and the Groups future prospects and performance.
Our responsibilities are described in the next paragraph.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient In addition, we are required to consider the other information and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is presented in the Annual Report including the principal risks consistent with our report to the audit committee.
disclosure and the viability statement and to consider the directors statement that the annual report and financial We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 9 June statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable 2009.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the and provides the information necessary for shareholders to ten financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled assess the Groups position and performance, business model our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent and strategy.
of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public Brexit is one of the most significant economic events for interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that the UK and at the date of this report its effects are subject standard were provided.
to unprecedented levels of uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range of possible effects unknown.
com 97 Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc continued The key areas our audit considered: 2 Key audit matters: including our assessment The determination of whether payments made to the of risks of material misstatement continued shareholders of the acquired company are treated as consideration or post acquisition remuneration.
While there Our response is limited judgement in this determination, the decision has In this area our procedures included: a significant impact on the financial statements.
We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the For those payments regarded as post acquisition consideration of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in remuneration, there is judgment in calculating the value planning and performing our audits.
Our procedures included: of the contingent and earn out awards including estimates relating to the achievement of operating targets as set out Our Brexit knowledge We considered the directors assessment of Brexit-related sources of risk for the Groups in the Sale and Purchase agreement.
business and financial resources compared with our own The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment of the risks.
We considered the directors plans assessment, we determined that contingent and earn-out to take action to mitigate the risks.
awards have a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our Sensitivity analysis When addressing key audit matters including accounting for acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
and considering the impairment of client relationship intangibles, we compared the directors analysis to our The risk The fair value of client relationship intangibles assessment of the full range of reasonably possible scenarios On acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd, the Group recognised resulting from Brexit uncertainty and, where forecast cash client relationships as an identifiable intangible asset at fair value, flows are required to be discounted, considered adjustments reflecting the future cash flows expected from the client to discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.
The fair value of client relationship intangibles recognised is 54.3 million.
Assessing transparency As well as assessing individual disclosures as part of our procedures on key audit matters The valuation of the client relationship intangible depends including accounting for acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd on a number of key judgemental assumptions and estimates and considering the impairment of client relationship including the assumed useful economic life of acquired client intangibles we considered all of the Brexit related disclosures relationships, the growth rate used to forecast revenue together, including those in the strategic report, comparing generated from these client relationships and the discount the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
rate used in the discounted cash flow model.
An inappropriate Our results As reported under key audit matters including judgement, error or omission in valuing client relationship accounting for acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd and considering intangibles can consequently impact the amount of goodwill the impairment of client relationship intangibles, we found the recognised during the year in relation to the related resulting estimates and related disclosures of these key audit acquisition.
matters and disclosures in relation to going concern to be The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict we determined that valuation of client relationship intangibles the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential a company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
New Accounting for acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd Our response Refer to page 71 audit committee report, page 109 accounting policy and page 162 financial disclosures.
In this area our procedures included: During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Group acquired Accounting application in relation to the split of total consideration a 100% equity interest in Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd for a total between acquisition consideration and post-acquisition services consideration of 89.4 million.
The fair values of identifiable Accounting analysis: We obtained and examined the Sale and net assets acquired on the date of acquisition amounted to Purchase agreement to gain an understanding of all elements 61.3 million and goodwill arising from the acquisition of consideration.
We evaluated the appropriateness of the treatment for each The risk Accounting application in relation to the split of element of consideration by considering the treatment against total consideration between acquisition consideration and the requirements set out in IFRS 3 Business combinations.
We remuneration for post-acquisition services tested the appropriateness of the amounts recorded by agreeing these to the Sale and Purchase agreement and underlying As part of the acquisition, payments are made to the owners of calculations supported by documentary evidence as appropriate.
Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd on completion date and future payments based on certain operational targets and the continued We engaged our internal valuation specialists to evaluate the fair employment of owners by the Group.
value of the consideration and post-acquisition remuneration involving share based payments.
98 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 98 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Consolidated financial statements We challenged the basis and assumptions around the The risk Accounting application in relation to impairment achievement of operational and financial performance of client relationship intangibles targets used by the management in estimation and recording For client relationship intangibles acquired as part of a of the contingent and earn out portion of the post-acquisition business combination, the Group assesses whether there is an remuneration in the year ended 31 December 2018 through indication of impairment considering a range of impairment verification and recalculation.
Where such an indication exists, the Group considers whether the ongoing benefits offered by the capitalised client Methodology choice: We considered the Groups judgement relationship intangibles are greater than their carrying value in selecting its assumptions and whether there were any and, if not, an impairment provision is recorded.
There is a indicators of management bias.
risk that a client relationship intangible was impaired but the Assessing transparency: We have evaluated the appropriateness Group did not record an impairment provision, because the of the related disclosures in note 35 to the financial statements.
For client relationship intangibles purchased individually, the Fair value of client relationship intangibles Group assesses whether there is an indication of impairment Assessment of fair value: We evaluated managements by considering if the remaining economic benefits expected determination of the fair value of client relationship to be received is greater than the carrying value and, if not, an intangibles by: impairment provision is recorded.
There is a risk that a client relationship intangible was impaired but the Group did not 1.
Engaging our internal valuation specialists to evaluate and challenge the identification and valuation methodology used record an impairment provision.
This included assessing the client relationship The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, intangibles identified and the basis of their valuation.
we determined that impairment of client relationship intangibles has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, 2.
Challenge of the key assumptions used in the valuation with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater model including the discount rate and growth rate used.
than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Methodology choice: We considered the Groups judgement in selecting its assumptions and whether there were any indicators Our response of management bias.
In this area our procedures included: Assessing transparency: We have evaluated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 35 to the financial statements.
Accounting application in relation to impairment of client relationship intangibles Our results We found the accounting application in relation Independent re-performance: For the element of the client to the split of total consideration between acquisition relationship intangibles previously capitalised under IFRS 3 consideration and post-acquisition services and the fair Business Combinations we have critically assessed the value of client relationship intangibles acquired for the Groups review of the client relationship intangibles against acquisition of Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd to be acceptable.
We have assessed and re-performed the Groups impairment calculation and verified the data inputs Impairment of client relationship intangibles 134.6 such as value of funds under management and number of million 2017: 88.5 million of which 54.3 million client accounts.
relates to the Speirs & Jeffery acquisition as described Tests of details: In considering the adequacy of the on page 98 of our report impairment assessment performed by the Group to support the carrying value of client relationship intangibles Risk vs 2017: previously capitalised, we assessed the population for closed Refer to page 71 audit committee report, page 113 accounting client accounts or non-income generating clients to assess policy and page 134 financial disclosures.
whether they were appropriately derecognised.
We inspected The Group has capitalised significant amounts as client client attrition rates and funds under management for relationship intangibles, including both those purchased evidence of impairment.
individually initially recognised at cost and those acquired as part of a business combination initially recognised at fair value.
com 99 Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc continued Our response Our procedures include: 2 Key audit matters: including our assessment Our actuarial expertise: We used our own actuarial specialists of risks of material misstatement continued to challenge key assumptions and estimates used in the calculation of the pension deficit.
The key assumptions and Assessing transparency: estimates we tested included the discount rate, RPI inflation, We have evaluated the appropriateness of the related disclosures and life expectancy that were applied to the valuation.
in note 22 to the financial statements.
Benchmarking assumptions: We performed a comparison Our results We found the carrying value of client relationship of key assumptions against externally derived data and our intangibles to be acceptable.
benchmark ranges for similar schemes.
Following the implementation of IFRS 15, which introduces Methodology choice: We considered Groups judgement guidance on capitalisation of contract costs, we have not in selecting its assumptions and whether there were any assessed recognition of client relationship intangibles as indicators of management bias.
one of the most significant risks in our current year audit Assessing transparency: We considered the adequacy of the and, therefore, it is not included as part of this key audit Groups disclosure in respect of the defined benefit pension matter in this years report.
deficit and the assumptions used which is set out in note 28 to the financial statements.
Valuation of defined benefit pension obligation 146.5 Our results We found the valuation of the defined benefit million 2017: 164.1 million pension obligation to be acceptable.
Risk vs 2017: We continue to perform procedures over measurement of Refer to page 71 audit committee report, page 114 accounting onerous lease provision.
However, during the year Group policy and page 138 financial disclosures.
completed assignment of its leases on surplus property, hence we have not assessed this as one of the significant risks in our The risk Subjective valuation current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified The Group and parent company have recognised a in our report this year.
defined benefit pension obligation of 146.5 million as at 31 December 2018.
3 Our application of materiality and an The valuation of the defined benefit pension obligation overview of the scope of our audit depends on a number of judgemental assumptions and Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set estimates, including: the discount rate used to calculate the at 3.8 million 2017: 3.6 million, determined with reference to a current value of the future payments the Group expects to benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude the pay pensioners, the rate of inflation that must be incorporated acquisition and integration related costs of 3.6 million refer in the estimate of the future pension payments and the life note 9, the current year charge of the contingent and earn-out expectancy of pension scheme members.
The valuation is an consideration payable to vendors and employees of Speirs & important judgment as this balance is volatile and impacts the Jeffrey Ltd amounting to 14.7 million refer note 9 and the parent companys distributable reserves.
credit related to the assignment of the onerous lease 3.7 million Uncertainty arises as a result of estimates made in respect refer note 10.
These expenses do not form part of the normal, of long term trends and market conditions to determine continuing operations of the Group and are not considered to be the value based on the Groups expectations of the future.
part of the normalised profit before tax.
Materiality represents 5% As a result, the defined benefit pension obligation recognised 2017: 5% of the normalised Group profit before tax.
by the Group on the balance sheet might be significantly different than the actual liability of the Group, since small Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole changes to the assumptions used in the calculation materially was set at 3.0 million 2017: 2.9 million.
This is lower than the affect the valuation.
materiality we would otherwise have determined by reference to net assets, and represents 1.0% of the parent companys net assets The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk 2017: 1.4%.
assessment, we determined that valuation of defined benefit pension obligation has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
100 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 100 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Consolidated financial statements We agreed to report to the audit committee any corrected or In our evaluation of the directors conclusions, we considered uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 190,000 the inherent risks to the Groups and companys business model, 2017: 180,000, in addition to other identified misstatements including the impact of Brexit, and analysed how those risks might that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
affect the companys financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period.
We evaluated those Of the Group's nine 2017: eight reporting components, we risks and concluded that they were not significant enough to subjected nine 2017: eight to full scope audits for Group purposes.
require us to perform additional audit procedures.
The audit work for eight 2017: eight was performed by the Group team and one 2017: Nil was performed by a component team to Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: materiality levels set individually for each entity which ranged we have anything material to add or draw attention to in from 0.02 million to 3.0 million 2017: 0.03 million to 2.9 relation to the directors statement in note 1.5 to the financial million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the statements on the use of the going concern basis of Group across the components.
accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast The Group team performed procedures on the items excluded significant doubt over the companys use of that basis for a from normalised Group profit before tax.
period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or The components scoped in for Group reporting purposes the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on accounted for 100% of total Group revenue, Group profit before page 93 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
tax and total Group assets.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
Normalised Group pro t before tax 3 8m 5 We have nothing to report on the other Group Materiality 2017: 3 6m information in the Annual Report and accounts 76 86m The directors are responsible for the other information presented 2017: 72 2m 3 0m in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Range of materiality at nine components Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the 0 02m-3 0m other information and, accordingly, we do not express an 2017: 0 3m to 2 9m audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form 0 19m of assurance conclusion thereon.
Misstatements reported Normalised Group PBT to the audit commitee Group materiality Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in 2017: 0 18m doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated 4 We have nothing to report on going concern or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the company or the material misstatements in the other information.
Group or to cease its operations, and as they have concluded that the companys and the Groups financial position means that this is Strategic report and directors report realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material Based solely on our work on the other information: uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over its ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
in our opinion the information given in those reports for the Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit in our opinion those reports have been prepared in report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or accordance with the Companies Act 2006. conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at Directors remuneration report the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to uncertainty in this auditor's report is not a guarantee that the be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Group and company will continue in operation.
com 101 Independent auditors report to the members of Rathbone Brothers Plc continued 5 We have nothing to report on the other 6 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report and matters on which we are required to report accounts continued by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability you if, in our opinion: Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial adequate accounting records have not been kept by the statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have attention to in relation to: not been received from branches not visited by us: or the directors confirmation within viability statement on page the parent company financial statements and the part of 40 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the the directors remuneration report to be audited are not principal risks facing the Group, including those that would in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or threaten its business model, future performance, solvency certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by and liquidity: law are not made: or the risk management disclosures describing these risks and we have not received all the information and explanations explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and we require for our audit.
the directors explanation in the viability statement of how We have nothing to report in these respects.
they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether 7 Respective responsibilities they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they Directors responsibilities fall due over the period of their assessment, including any As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 95 related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial qualifications or assumptions.
statements including being satisfied that they give a true and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and companys longer-term viability.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether Corporate governance disclosures the financial statements as a whole are free from material We are required to report to you if: misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or we have identified material inconsistencies between the error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable knowledge we acquired during our financial statements assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee audit and the directors statement that they consider that the that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements balanced and understandable and provides the information can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could performance, business model and strategy: or reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
the section of the annual report describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the communicated by us to the audit committee.
We are required to report to you if the corporate governance report does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
102 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 102 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2018 Consolidated financial statements Irregularities ability to detect 8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom We identified relevant areas of laws and regulations that could we owe our responsibilities have a material effect on the financial statements from our This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, general commercial and sector experience, through discussion in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act with the directors and other management as required by 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might auditing standards, from inspection of the Groups regulatory state to the companys members those matters we are required correspondence and discussed with the directors and other to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
management the policies and procedures regarding compliance To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
included communication from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial Nicholas Edmonds Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf statements varies considerably.
of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly 15 Canada Square affect the financial statements including financial reporting London legislation including related companies legislation and taxation E14 5GL legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these 20 February 2019 laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: regulatory capital and liquidity, conduct, financial crime including money laundering, sanctions list and market abuse regulations recognising the financial and regulated nature of the Groups activities.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify noncompliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
