Independent auditors report to the members of RDI REIT P. L. C. In our opinion: 1 Our opinion is unmodified 2 Key audit matters: our assessment ofrisksof material misstatement We have audited the financial statements of the financial statements give a true and fair view RDIREITP.
L. C. the Group or the Company Key audit matters are those matters that, in our of the state of the Groups and of the Companys forthe year ended 31 August 2018 which comprise professional judgement, were of most significance affairs as at 31 August 2018 and of the Groups the Consolidated and Company Income Statement, and of the Companys profit for the year then in the audit of the financial statements and include the Consolidated and Company Statement of the most significant assessed risks of material ended: Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and misstatement whether or not due to fraud the Group financial statements have been Company Balance Sheet, the Consolidated identified by us, including those which had the properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the issued by the IASB: and and Company Statement of Cash Flows, and the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the Company financial statements have been related notes, including the accounting policies the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as inNote 2. were addressed, and our results are based on issued by the IASB.
procedures undertaken, in the context of, and The financial reporting framework that has been solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial applied in their preparation is the Isle of Man Basis for opinion statements asa whole, and in forming our opinion Companies Act 2006 and International Financial We conducted our audit in accordance with thereon, andconsequently are incidental to that Reporting Standards IFRS.
International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities on these matters.
In arriving at our audit opinion under those standards are further described in above, the key audit matters, in decreasing order the Auditors Responsibilities section of our report.
ofsignificance, were as follows: We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and are independent of the Group in accordance with the applicable ethical requirements, the FRCethical standard as applicable to listed entities.
Webelievethat the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to theAudit and Risk Committee.
Group financial statements Valuation of investment property 1,598.0 million 2017: 1,494.9 million Refer to page 93 Audit and Risk Committee report, page 126 key judgement in accounting policy and pages 140 to 143 financial disclosures The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The valuation of the Groups investment In this area our audit procedures included, among others: properties involves significant judgements assessing managements process for reviewing and addressing the work of the external valuers: made by management using the advice of assessing the design and implementation of controls relating to the valuation process: external valuers, particularly those around the selection of valuation models and the inputs to assessing the competence, objectivity and integrity of the external valuers.
This assessment included, those models, current market conditions and but was not limited to, assessing their professional qualifications, experience and independence from rental levels.
the Group: The valuation exercise also relies on the assessing evidence that alternative assumptions had been considered and evaluated by management completeness and accuracy of the underlying in concluding on the final valuation: lease and financial information provided to the discussing and where appropriate, challenging the external valuers in respect of: valuers by management.
the valuation process adopted: There were also certain factors affecting the the significant assumptions used and critical judgement areas in the valuation process including valuations this year, specifically, the uncertain break clauses, future lease income and yields: and market conditions affecting secondary retail the performance of the relevant portfolio: assets in the UK and the number of CVAs within for certain portfolios, using our internal valuation specialists to assist us in critically assessing the this sector.
valuation methodology applied, considering whether the methodology is in line with accounting principles and also to challenge key inputs in light of market indicators: testing, on a sample basis, the integrity of the information provided to the independent valuers used in valuing the properties, by agreeing that information to underlying agreements: and considering the completeness and adequacy of the disclosures associated with investment property.
Our results Based on the results of our testing, we consider the investment property valuations to be acceptable.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 115 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of RDI REIT P. L. C. Transaction risk and accounting for complex transactions Refer to page 126 key judgement in accounting policy and page 137 financial disclosures The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group has undertaken a number of In this area our audit procedures included, among others: transactions during the year, the most agreeing the transaction details to the underlying legal agreements: significant of which were the acquisition of assess the design and implementation of the process and relevant controls associated with complex a controlling interest in International Hotel transactions: Properties Limited IHL, St Dunstans Hold Co Limited and LSO Services Limited, together considering whether the acquisitions constituted business combinations under IFRS 3 or whether the LSO.
acquisitions should be accounted for as asset acquisitions in accordance with IAS 40: challenge managements judgements by inspecting the sale and purchase agreements and other These transactions warranted additional audit related documents and assessing each transaction against the recognition, measurement and focus due to the magnitude of transactions and classification criteria according to the Groups accounting policies and applicable IFRS: the potential for complex contractual terms assessing the fair value of the consideration paid, as well as the fair value of the identifiable assets that introduce judgement into how they are accounted for.
and liabilities acquired in light of available market information: and considering the adequacy of the disclosures associated with the transactions in the financialstatements.
Our results Based on the results of our testing, we consider the accounting for complex transactions to beacceptable.
Company financial statements Investment in subsidiaries 657.1 million 2017: 539.9 million Refer to page 127 accounting policy and page 143 financial disclosures The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Investments in subsidiary undertakings are In this area our audit procedures included, among others: carried in the Companys separate financial assessing the carrying value of subsidiaries for any objective indicators of impairment: and statements at cost less impairment.
assessing the accuracy of managements fair value, and impairment calculations.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings is significant as the subsidiarys performance can Our results directly impact that of the Company.
Based on the results of our testing, we consider the carrying value of the investment in subsidiary undertakings to be acceptable.
We reported to the Audit and Risk Committee all The audit was performed using the materiality levels 3 Our application of materiality and corrected and uncorrected misstatements we set out above.
anoverview of the scope of our audit identified through our audit with a value in excess of The materiality for the Group financial statements The remaining 0.3 per cent 2017: 0.7 per cent of 0.9million 2017: 0.8 million, in addition to other as a whole was set at 17.2 million 2017: 16.3 total Group assets and 0.5 per cent 2017: 1.5 per audit misstatements below that threshold that we million.
This has been calculated with reference to cent of Group profit before tax is represented by believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
a benchmark of total assets of which it represents the Groups investment in RBH Hotel Group Limited, circa 1 per cent 2017:1 per cent, which we The Group consists of a number of components, which is considered immaterial to the Groups consider to be one of the principal considerations which, with the exception of the newly acquired LSO financial position.
for members of the Company in assessing the entities and the Groups 25.3 per cent 2017: 30.4 financial performance of the Group.
RDI REIT P. L. C. We have nothing to report on going concern per cent associate investment in RBH Hotel Group as a property company, generates a return which is Limited RBH formerly known as RedefineBDL We are required to report to you if we have largely dependent on the assets held.
Materiality for Hotel Group Limited, are accounted for at the concluded that the use of the going concern the Company financial statements as a whole was set Groups head office in London.
The Group audit basis of accounting is inappropriate or there is at 6.8 million 2017:6.4 million, determined with team audited the LSO component and the audit an undisclosed material uncertainty that may reference to a benchmark of Company total assets, of all other components including the audit of cast significant doubt over the use of that basis of which it represents 1 per cent 2017: 1 per cent.
the Company, with the exception of RBH, within for a period of at least 12 months from the date the Group as if it were a single aggregated set of of approval of the financial statements.
These components represent nothing to report in these respects.
99.7 per cent 2017: 99.3 per cent of total assets and 99.5 per cent 2017: 98.5 per cent of Group profit before tax.
116 RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 4 We have nothing to report on the other Other corporate governance disclosures Auditors responsibilities information in the Annual Report We are required to address the following items and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance report to you in the following circumstances: about whether the financial statements as a whole The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together are free from material misstatement, whether due to fair, balanced and understandable: if we have fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our with the financial statements.
The other information identified material inconsistencies between the opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance section comprises the strategic report page 2 to knowledge we acquired during our financial is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee page 73, the Directors report page 74 to page 113 statements audit and the Directors statement that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK and the other information section page 178 to page that they consider that the Annual Report and 185.
The financial statements and our audit opinion will always detect a material misstatement when it financial statements taken as a whole is fair, exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other thereon are not part of the other information.
Our balanced and understandable and provides the irregularities or error and are considered material if, opinion on the financial statements does not cover information necessary for shareholders to assess individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably the other information and, accordingly, we do not the Groups position and performance, business be expected to influence the economic decisions of express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly model and strategy: or stated below, any form of assurance conclusion users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
report of the Audit and Risk Committee: if the The risk of not detecting a material misstatement thereon.
section of the Annual Report describing the resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher Our responsibility is to read the other information work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not than for one resulting from error, as they may and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our appropriately address matters communicated by involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, financial statements audit work, the information us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or misrepresentations, or the override of internal therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with control and may involve any area of law and statement of compliance with UK Corporate the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
regulation not just those directly affecting the Governance Code: if the Directors statement Based solely on that work we have not identified financial statements.
does not properly disclose a departure from material misstatements in the other information.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code A fuller description of our responsibilities specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
Strategic report and Directors report isprovidedon the FRCs website at www.
Based solely on our work on the other information: We have nothing to report in these respects.
we have not identified material misstatements inthe Directors report or strategic report: and 6 The purpose of our audit work and 5 Respective responsibilities in our opinion, the information given in the to whom we owe our responsibilities Directors responsibilities strategic and Directors report is consistent with Our report is made solely to the Companys As explained more fully in their statement set out the financial statements.
Our audit work has been on page 114, the Directors are responsible for: the undertaken so that we might state to the Companys preparation of the financial statements including Disclosures of principal risks and members those matters we are required to state being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: longer-term viability to them in an auditors report and for no other such internal control as they determine is necessary Based on the knowledge we acquired during our purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, to enable the preparation of financial statements financial statements audit, we have nothing material wedo not accept or assume responsibility to that are free from material misstatement, whether to add or draw attention to in relation to: anyone other than the Company and the Companys due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and members, as a body, for our audit work, for this the principal risks disclosures describing these Parent Companys ability to continue as a going report, or for the opinions we have formed.
risks and explaining how they are being managed concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related and mitigated: to going concern: and using the going concern basis N. Marshall of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Directors confirmation within the viability for and on behalf of the Group or the Parent Company or to cease statement on page 22 that they have carried out operations, or have no realistic alternative but to a robust assessment of the principal risks facing doso.
the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: and the Directors explanation in the viability Chartered Accountants, Statutory Audit Firm statement of how they have assessed the 1 Harbourmaster Place IFSC prospects of the Group, over what period they Dublin 1 Ireland have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as 25 October 2018 to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures, drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
RDI REIT P. L. C. Annual Report 2018 117
