Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Our opinion is unmodified Basis for opinion We have audited the financial statements of Reckitt Benckiser We conducted our audit in accordance with International Group plc the Company for the year ended 31 December Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
2018 which comprise the Group Income Statement, Group Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group Balance Sheet, audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate Group Statement of Changes in Equity, Group Cash Flow basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our Statement, and the related notes, including accounting policies report to the Audit Committee.
in Note 1, and the Parent Company Balance Sheet, Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related We were first appointed as auditor by the Shareholders on notes, including the accounting policies in Note 1.
Therefore the year ended 31 December 2018 is our first year acting as auditor.
We have fulfilled our ethical In our opinion: responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year were provided.
then ended: Overview the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Materiality: 140million in accordance with International Financial Reporting Group financial statements 4.6% of adjusted Group profit before Standards as adopted by the European Union: as a whole tax Coverage 82% of Group net revenue and 77% of the Parent Company financial statements have been total profits and losses that made up properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting Group profit before tax standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Risks of material misstatement Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and Key audit matters Recoverability of goodwill and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance indefinite life intangible assets relating with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as to IFCN regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Revenue recognition in relation to IAS Regulation.
trade spend Provision for uncertain tax positions Additional opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by Liabilities and contingent liabilities theIASB: arising from ongoing investigations by As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the the US Department of Justice DoJ group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to and the South Korea Humidifier apply IFRS as adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRS as issued Sanitizer HS issue by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Classification of exceptional items Recoverability of Parent Companys In our opinion the Group financial statements have been investment in subsidiaries properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 124 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 1.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Recoverability of goodwill and Forecast-based valuation: Our procedures included: indefinite life intangible assets The recoverability of goodwill and Sensitivity analysis: We considered the sensitivity of each relating to IFCN indefinite life intangible assets relating to assumption, identified changes to these assumptions since IFCN is assessed using forecast financial previous forecasts, and focused our attention on those 16,407million: information within a discounted cash flow assumptions we considered to be most sensitive, 2017: 15,868million model the model that is highly sensitive judgemental or otherwise prone to management bias.
to changes in key assumptions.
As Refer to page 84 Audit Committee disclosed in Note 9, there exists a Benchmarking assumptions: We critically evaluated the Report, pages 145-146 accounting reasonably plausible set of changes in bridge between net revenue growth assumptions within policy and pages 159-162 financial these assumptions that would result in the the model and managements forecast growth for the disclosures.
recognition of an impairment well in excess product category as a whole.
We benchmarked those of our materiality for the financial forecasts against external market data and considered the statements as a whole and possibly many extent to which they reflected the latest sentiment on birth times that amount.
rates and GDP growth in China.
We benchmarked the terminal growth assumptions against long-term estimates It is common for goodwill and other of GDP growth and inflation in key markets.
indefinite life intangible assets recognised on a recent business combination to be Historical comparisons: sensitive to impairment.
However, in 2018 We reviewed the performance of IFCN since acquisition the risk of impairment relating to IFCN is against plan and evaluated this in relation to forecast heightened because: growth.
In relation to the temporary disruption at the the key drivers of product category European manufacturing plant, we assessed the impact growth for IFCN, birth rates and GDP on 2018 results, reviewed managements evaluation of growth, have seen actual and the impact on forecast growth and how this was forecast declines in China, a significant incorporated in the model.
market: and We challenged the Directors on the ability of the the temporary disruption at the Groups innovation pipeline to deliver forecast revenue European manufacturing plant in the growth by assessing the Groups past experience in third quarter of 2018 resulted in bringing new or improved products to market, and underperformance against forecasts in evaluated how that experience can be applied to the 2018.
The impact of the disruption is IFCN product category.
expected to continue into 2019, in We critically challenged the EBIT margin projections by China in particular, as the supply chain reference to those achieved historically, forecast volume recovers and due to loss of future growth and with reference to forecast and achieved consumer demand arising from on-shelf synergies to date.
Our sector experience: We evaluated the robustness and The model forecasts the successful available capacity of the supply chain to support revenue execution of the Groups sustainable growth projections, in light of the temporary disruption at outperformance strategy.
IFCN the European manufacturing plant during the year and management must gain market share, forecast maintenance spend.
deliver forecast synergies and improve EBIT margins.
In addition, the model is highly sensitive to external factors such as changes in the growth of the product category as a whole, discount rates and terminal growth rate assumptions.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 125 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued 1.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Recoverability of goodwill and Our valuation expertise: We independently derived a indefinite life intangible assets reasonable range of appropriate discount rates with the relating to IFCN continued assistance of our valuation experts, compared these to those calculated by the Directors and identified any differences in assumptions between the calculations.
We challenged the Group on any such differences and assessed the discount rate in relation to our appropriate range and those utilised in previous valuations.
Assessing transparency: We considered the adequacy of the disclosures provided by Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements in relation to relevant accounting standards, paying particular attention to ensuring the sensitivity disclosures appropriately reflect an acceptable recoverable amount of these assets and sufficiently highlight the potentially material impairment that could result from reasonably plausible changes in key assumptions.
Our findings We found the resulting estimate of the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets to be acceptable.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 126 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 1.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Revenue recognition in relation Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: to trade spend As is industry practice, the Group enters Accounting policies: Assessed the appropriateness of the into numerous types of complex Groups revenue recognition accounting policies, including Net Revenue: commercial arrangements with retailers the recognition criteria for trade spend.
Trade spend accrual and other customers to offer product 1,025million:2017: 905million promotions and discounts.
Revenue is Tests of details: Risk-based selection or representative measured net of estimated rebates and sampling of trade spend accruals and performed Refer to page 84 Audit Committee discounts earned by customers on the thefollowing: Report, page 144 accounting policy Groups sales.
Identified the key assumptions underpinning the and page 179 financial disclosures.
calculation for each accrual selected, such as forecast Trade spend arrangements have varying volume or margin levels at the customer: terms and levels of complexity with some requiring a significant level of judgement Evaluated within the Groups markets, the process for depending primarily on local practice, developing the estimate: thecustomer, or product category.
Some Agreed certain assumptions used in making the estimate arrangements are supported by annual to relevant documentation, such as EPOS data or contracts or joint business plans, whilst customer contracts: and others may be shorter term agreements entered into and concluded during the Challenged the appropriateness of the assumptions year.
Where activity spans a year end, used in the calculation of the estimate.
judgement may be required to estimate the timing and amount of trade spend accrued Test of details: Assessed the completeness of trade spend but not settled at the year end.
These accruals on a sample basis by obtaining supporting judgements impact on reported net documentation for rebates settled after the year end date.
revenue and operating profit, both of which are key performance indicators for Historical comparisons: Evaluated the accuracy of management incentive schemes.
previous trade spend accruals calculated by the Group comparing the prior year end trade spend accrual to the Therefore, there is a risk that net revenue actual trade spend incurred.
and operating profit may be misstated either through error, or as a result of Our sector experience: Challenged the Groups manipulation of rebates and discounts assumptions used in estimating trade spend accruals using accruals arising from the pressure our industry experience and our experience in those management may feel to achieve countries in which it operates.
Assessing disclosures: Assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the trade spend accrual and the amount of trade spend recognised.
Our findings We found the trade spend accrual and related expense recognised to be acceptable.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 127 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued 1.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Provision for Uncertain Tax Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: Positions UTPs Due to the Group operating across a Our tax expertise: Used our own international and local number of different tax jurisdictions, and tax specialists to: Refer to page 84 Audit Committee the complexities of transfer pricing and Inspect and assess the centrally prepared transfer pricing Report, page 144 accounting policy other international tax legislation, it is policies to ensure they reflect the risks, activities and and page 179 financial disclosures.
subject to periodic challenge by local substance of each of the entities within the supply taxauthorities on a range of tax matters chain: and arising in the normal course of business.
Assess the Groups tax positions, its correspondence These challenges by the local tax with the relevant tax authorities, and to analyse and authorities include but are not limited to: challenge the assumptions used to determine provisions for tax uncertainties based on our knowledge and Transfer pricing arrangements relating experiences of the application of the tax legislation.
to one of the Groups key operating models: Historical comparisons: Assessed the historical accuracy Transfer pricing arrangements relating of the provision level following any recent court judgements to the ownership of intellectual and results of relevant tax authority audits on the remaining property rights that are used across provision.
theGroup: Assessing transparency: Assessed the adequacy of the Deductibility of interest on intra-group Groups disclosures in respect of uncertain tax positions.
borrowings: and Our findings The European Commissions ongoing We found the level of tax provisioning to be acceptable.
State Aid investigations into transfer pricing ruling practices of certain member states.
Accruals for tax contingencies require the Directors to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that the valuation of uncertain tax positions has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 128 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 1.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Liabilities and contingent Subjective estimate and dispute Our procedures included: liabilities arising from ongoing outcome: DoJ investigation investigations by the US The Group is involved in ongoing Enquiry of lawyers: We enquired of the Group and Department of Justice DoJ and investigations by the DoJ and in 2017 Parent Companys General Counsel to obtain an the South Korea Humidifier recognised a liability for USD$400million.
understanding of the investigation, the status of the Sanitizer HS issue TheGroup determined that there were no discussions, and the potential outcome.
developments during 2018 which would Refer to page 84 Audit Committee require a change in the amount of the Performed enquiries with external counsel to ascertain the Report, page 148 accounting policy liability held.
There is significant judgement reasonableness of the Directors assertion in respect of the and pages 177-179 financial associated with determining the need for, likely outcome.
We also received formal confirmations from disclosures.
and the size of, provisions for liabilities external counsel.
As a result, there is a risk that the final cost to Assessing disclosures: Assessed the adequacy of the the Group may be substantially more than Groups disclosures in relation to the DoJ investigation.
HS Issue In addition the Group is subject to ongoing Enquiry of lawyers: We enquired of the Group and investigations relating to the HS issue in Parent Companys General Counsel and reviewed steering South Korea.
The Korean Ministry of the committee minutes to obtain an understanding of the facts Environment MOE continue their in relation to the HS issue and we obtained the Directors categorisation of victims for a number of assessment of whether further liabilities are required in injuries which may give rise to further respect of asthma-related injury and other potential lung liabilities.
There is significant judgement and non-lung injuries.
associated in particular with determining the need for, and the size of, liabilities for We inspected correspondence from and performed asthma-related injury and other potential enquiries of external counsel to ascertain the lung and non-lung injuries.
reasonableness of the Directors assertion in respect of the likely outcome.
We also received formal The effect of the DoJ and HS matter is that, confirmations from external counsel.
as part of our risk assessment, we determined that the provision liabilities and Independent re-performance: Developed an contingent liabilities have a high degree of independent expectation of the HS provision by using estimation uncertainty, with a potential historical payment data and historical victim categorisation range of reasonable outcomes greater than data to calculate the expected payments to be made to our materiality for the financial statements victims to challenge the valuation and completeness of the as a whole.
liabilities recognised by the Group.
Sensitivity analysis: Performed sensitivity analysis on the assumptions used to create our independent expectation to determine if a reasonably possible change in assumptions would materially alter the liability level.
Assessing disclosures: Assessed whether the Groups disclosures adequately disclose the liabilities and contingent liabilities of the Group.
Our findings The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the liabilities recognised and contingent liabilities to be acceptable.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 129 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued 1.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Classification of Exceptional Presentation appropriateness: Our procedures included: Items The Group separately presents exceptional Assessing principles: We challenged managements items as a note to the Group Income rationale for the designation of certain items as exceptional 188million expense: Statement and these items are excluded and assessed such items against the Groups accounting 2017:3,891million income from managements reporting of the policy, considering the nature and value of items.
underlying results of the business.
Refer to page 84 Audit Committee The reasoning behind this presentation Assessing application: We assessed the consistency Report, pages 144-145 accounting is set out in the notes to the Group of application of this policy and obtained corroborative policy and pages 153-154 financial financial statements.
evidence on a sample basis to support the presentation of disclosures.
Exceptional items are not defined by IFRSand therefore the identification Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the andpresentation of these as exceptional accounting policy for exceptional items is clearly and requires judgement, and has a direct accurately described and whether the exceptional items impact on underlying results which are are discussed with sufficient clarity in the annual report used to determine certain management as a whole.
Our findings We found the presentation of exceptional items to be acceptable.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 130 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 1.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Recoverability of Parent Low risk, high value Our procedures included: Companys investment in The carrying amount of the Parent Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of 100% subsidiaries Companys investments in subsidiaries of the total investment balance with the relevant represents 99.7% 2017: 99.7% of the subsidiaries draft balance sheet to identify whether their 14,949million: Companys total assets.
Their recoverability net assets, being an approximation of their minimum 2017: 14,925million is not at a high risk of significant recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying misstatement or subject to significant amount and assessing whether those subsidiaries have Refer to page 197 accounting policy judgement.
However, due to their historically been profit-making.
materiality in the context of the Parent Company financial statements, this is Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work considered to be the area that had the performed by the subsidiary audit teams on a sample of greatest effect on our overall Parent those subsidiaries and considering the results of that work, Company audit.
on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
Our findings We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 131 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued Adjusted Group Pro t before Tax 2.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the Group materiality 3,033 million 140 million scope of our audit Materiality 140 million Whole financial Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was statements materiality set at 140million, determined with reference to a benchmark of adjusted group profit before tax as defined in note 3, of which it represents 4.6%.
75 million Range of materiality Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements at 48 components 7.5 million-75 million as a whole was set at 75million determined with reference to a benchmark of Company total assets of which it represents 0.5%.
In addition, we applied materiality of 22.5million to the Adjusted Group Pro t before Tax classification of exceptional items for which we believe 3,033 million misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the Group materiality 140 million 7 million financial statements as a whole could be reasonably expected Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee to influence the Companys members assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified Total pro ts and losses misstatements exceeding 7million, in addition to other that made up Group identified misstatements that warranted, in our view, reporting Group net revenue pro t before tax on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that are identified when assessing the 81% 72% overall presentation of the financial statements.
18% Scope 23% 1% The Group operates in more than 60 countries across 6 4% 82% 77% 1% continents with the largest footprint being in the US and China, and from 1 January 2018 is organised into two businessunits being Health and Hygiene Home.
We scoped the audit by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment and assessing the risk of material Group total assets misstatement at the Group and component level.
Specifically we instructed component auditors to complete a trade spend 88% 10% questionnaire where they would perform an analysis into the characteristics, complexity and relative materiality of accruals 1% 1% held locally to aid our risk assessment.
90% We have considered components on the basis of their contribution to Group net revenue and total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax, and including whether we had sufficient coverage over each business unit and the specific risks in the components.
Of the Groups 368 reporting Key: components, component teams in 23 countries subjected 44 to Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 full scope audits for group purposes, 3 to specified risk-focused Speci ed risk-focused procedures 2018 audit procedures including procedures over net revenue, trade Audit of account balances 2018 spend, inventory, cost of sales, PPE, and cash and 1 to audit of Residual components account balance over inventory, cost of sales, PPE, and cash.
The latter 4 components were not individually financially significant enough to require a full scope audit for group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 132 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the 3.
We have nothing to report on going concern scope of our audit continued The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the The remaining 18% of Group net revenue, 23% of total profits going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the and losses that made up Group profit before tax and 10% of Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as Group total assets is represented by a number of reporting they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups components, none of which individually represented more than financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also 1% of any of Group net revenue, Group profit before tax or concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could Group total assets.
For these residual 320 components, we have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a performed analysis at an aggregated Group level and going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of performed unpredictable procedures at the component level the financial statements the going concern period.
tore-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material Team Structure uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to that The Group team led a global audit planning conference to in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future discuss key audit risks and to obtain input from component and events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in other participating locations.
outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of The Group team instructed component auditors as to the reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report is significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue detailed above and the information to be reported back.
Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 7.5million to 75million, having regard to the In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered mix of size and risk profile across the components.
the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups The work on 45 of the 48 components was performed by and Companys financial resources or ability to continue component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the operations over the going concern period.
The risks that we Groups treasury company and the Parent Company both considered most likely to adversely affect the Groups and located in the UK, were performed by the Group team.
Companys available financial resources over this period were: Inability to innovate and organically drive top line growth: The Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the group team visited 21 countries which represents 43 reporting The impact of a significant business continuity issue components of the 48 in scope for Group reporting purposes.
affecting the Groups manufacturing facilities or those of its The visits included assessing the audit risk and strategy and suppliers: and attending a balance sheet review with Group management, local management and component auditors.
Video or A product safety issue leading to reputational damage with telephone conference meetings were also held with these customers, consumers or regulators.
component auditors and the two others that were not physically visited throughout the conduct of the audit.
This As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt included attending the year end clearance meetings.
At these on the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team going concern, we considered sensitivities over the level of were discussed in more detail.
In addition we reviewed the available financial resources indicated by the Groups financial component auditors key working papers, including assessing forecasts taking account of reasonably possible but not the trade spend risk identified against the work performed, unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these risks and any further work required by the Group team was then individually and collectively and evaluated the achievability of performed by the component auditor.
the actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position should the risks materialise.
We also considered We attended via telephone calls balance sheet review meetings less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as for 7 components not in scope for the Group audit as part of erosion of customer or supplier confidence and the impact of our unpredictable procedures, to reconfirm our risk assessment Brexit, which could result in a rapid reduction of available and to further enhance our understanding of the business in financial resources.
our first year of engagement.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 133 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued 3.
We have nothing to report on going concern continued the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: page 56-57 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that we have anything material to add or draw attention to in would threaten its business model, future performance, relation to the Directors statement in Note 1 to the financial solvency and liquidity: statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast the risk management framework disclosures describing significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that these material existing and emerging risks and explaining basis for a period of at least 12 months from the date of how they are being managed and mitigated: and approval of the financial statements: or the Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how the related statement under the Listing Rules set out they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what on page 123 is materially inconsistent with our period they have done so and why they considered that audit knowledge.
period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they identify going concern as a key audit matter.
fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary 4.
We have nothing to report on the other information in qualifications or assumptions.
the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the other information Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit they were made, the absence of anything to report on these work, the information therein is materially misstated or statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit longer-term viability.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: Strategic report and Directors Report we have identified material inconsistencies between the Based solely on our work on the other information: knowledge we acquired during our financial statements we have not identified material misstatements in the audit and the Directors statement that they consider that Strategic report and the Directors report: the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides in our opinion the information given in those reports for the theinformation necessary for Shareholders to assess the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters Directors Remuneration Report communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance the Companies Act 2006.
Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw We have nothing to report in these respects.
attention to in relation to: Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 134 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 5.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on Irregularities ability to detect which we are required to report by exception We identified areas of laws and regulations that could Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the you if, in our opinion: financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience and through discussion with the Directors and other adequate accounting records have not been kept by the management as required by auditing standards, and from Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence been received from branches not visited by us: or and discussed with the directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and the Parent Company financial statements and the part of regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of agreement with the accounting records and returns: or non-compliance throughout the audit.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the law are not made: or financial statements varies considerably.
Firstly, the Group is we have not received all the information and explanations subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial we require for our audit.
statements including financial reporting including related companies legislation, distributable profits and taxation We have nothing to report in these respects.
We assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related 6.
Respective responsibilities financial statement items.
Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 123, Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could financial statements including being satisfied that they give a have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements litigation or the loss of the Groups licence to operate.
We that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud identified the following areas as those most likely to have such or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to an effect: health and safety reflecting the nature of the continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters Groups production and distribution process, anti-bribery related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of reflecting that the Group operates in a number of countries accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or where there is an opportunity to engage in bribery given the the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic lack of regulation by the local governments, interaction with alternative but to do so.
healthcare professionals reflecting the nature of the Groups products in the Health business unit, competition law Auditors responsibilities reflecting the nature of the Groups business and market Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about positions, consumer product law such as product safety and whether the financial statements as a whole are free from product claims reflecting the nature of the Groups diverse material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other product base, data privacy legislation reflecting the Groups irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion growing amounts of personal data held and intellectual in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level property legislation reflecting the potential for the Group to of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted infringe trademarks, copyright and patents.
Auditing standards in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the Directors and fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material other management and inspection of regulatory and legal if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be correspondence, if any.
Through these procedures, we became expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken aware of instances of actual or suspected non-compliance of a on the basis of the financial statements.
scale and nature that is unexceptional for a group of this size and considered the effect as part of our procedures on the A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the related financial statement items.
The identified actual or FRCs website at www.
suspected non-compliance was not sufficiently significant to our audit to result in our response being identified as a key audit matter.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 135 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc continued 6.
Respective responsibilities continued Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect noncompliance with all laws and regulations.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement by the Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report, and the further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with the terms agreed with the Company, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Richard Broadbelt Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London 18 March 2019 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 136 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
