GOVERNANCE OUR AUDIT APPROACH INDEPENDENT Overview ` Overall group materiality: 7.5m 2017: 3.8m, based on 0.5% of revenue.
AUDITORS REPORT ` Overall parent company materiality: 5.2m 2017: 3.8m, based on 1% of net assets.
TO THE MEMBERS OF Audit scope ` We performed an audit over the complete RENEWI PLC financial information of five out of the seven reporting units being Hazardous Waste, Netherlands Commercial, Belgium Report on the audit of the financial statements Commercial, UK Municipal and Group Central Services divisions.
Additional analytical reviews and specified audit procedures were performed over the remaining reporting units, being Monostreams and Canada Municipal.
OPINION Our opinion is consistent with our reporting ` We obtained coverage of approximately to the Audit Committee.
88% of the Groups revenue and 81% of the In our opinion, Renewi plcs Group financial Groups underlying profit before tax from statements and parent company financial BASIS FOR OPINION the audit procedures performed on full statements the financial statements : scope components.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Give a true and fair view of the state of the International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs Key audit matters groups and of the parent companys affairs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities ` Fraud and error in revenue recognition.
as at 31 March 2018 and of the groups loss under ISAs UK are further described in the and the groups and the parent companys Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the ` Impairment of tangible and intangible cash flows for the year then ended: financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have Have been properly prepared in accordance obtained is sufficient and appropriate to ` PFI contract accounting.
with IFRSs as adopted by the European provide a basis for our opinion.
Union and, as regards the parent companys ` PFI onerous contracts.
financial statements, as applied in Independence accordance with the provisions of the We remained independent of the group in ` Accounting for other provisions.
Companies Act 2006: and accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial ` Accounting for taxation.
Have been prepared in accordance with statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs the requirements of the Companies Act Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public ` Presentation of non-trading and exceptional 2006 and, as regards the group financial interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other items.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
The scope of our audit We have audited the financial statements, As part of designing our audit, we determined included within the Annual Report, which To the best of our knowledge and belief, we materiality and assessed the risks of material comprise: the consolidated and parent declare that non-audit services prohibited by misstatement in the financial statements.
In company balance sheet as at 31 March 2018: the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided particular, we looked at where the directors the consolidated income statement and to the group or the parent company.
made subjective judgements, for example in consolidated statement of comprehensive respect of significant accounting estimates that income, the consolidated and parent company Other than those disclosed in note 3.2 to involved making assumptions and considering statements of cash flows, and the consolidated the financial statements, we have provided future events that are inherently uncertain.
and parent company statements of changes no non-audit services to the group or the in equity for the year then ended: and the parent company in the period from 1 April We gained an understanding of the legal notes to the financial statements, which 2017 to 31 March 2018. and regulatory framework applicable to the include a description of the significant group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the group accounting policies.
com 112 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 that were contrary to applicable laws and HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED regulations, including fraud.
We designed KEY AUDIT MATTER THE KEY AUDIT MATTER audit procedures at group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a Fraud and error in revenue recognition We assessed the accuracy of managements material misstatement due to fraud is higher The nature of the Groups performance calculation of deferred revenue, which is than the risk of not detecting one resulting obligations under revenue contracts calculated based on waste tonnages and from error, as fraud may involve deliberate varies from business to business and from pricing, by: concealment by, for example, forgery or customer to customer.
In Netherlands intentional misrepresentations, or through Commercial and Belgium Commercial Attending year-end inventory counts of collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations a number of contracts give rise to an unprocessed waste to test the existence that could give rise to a material misstatement obligation to process waste received.
In and completeness of waste tonnages at in the group and parent company financial the Hazardous Waste division, the majority year-end: statements, including, but not limited to, of the contracts give rise to an obligation the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, to process waste received.
Where such Considering the reasonableness of Pensions legislation, UK tax legislation obligations exist, revenue is deferred when managements assumptions included and equivalent local laws and regulations invoices to customers are raised in advance in the calculation of deferred revenue applicable to significant component teams.
The calculation by benchmarking data points used by Our tests included, but were not limited to, of deferred revenue in the Hazardous management to external sources of review of the financial statement disclosures Waste Division is based on a number of information: to underlying supporting documentation, assumptions and judgements, principally enquiries of management and review of in relation to the quantity of unprocessed Performing substantive tests of detail significant component auditors work.
There material on site at the year end, which on the pricing of individual waste are inherent limitations in the audit procedures impact the quantum of revenue recognised components by tracing to invoices raised described above and the further removed nonin the year.
to customers: and compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the At 31 March 2018 the Group has 44.6m of Re-performing managements calculation financial statements, the less likely we would deferred revenue on its balance sheet.
See of deferred revenue at year-end.
note 4.8 to the financial statements.
Having performed the procedures above we were satisfied that the We did not identify any key audit matters Due to the varying nature of the Groups assumptions and judgements taken by relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As contractual obligations and the judgemental management in calculating quantities in all of our audits we also addressed the risk nature of the amount of unprocessed of unprocessed waste at year-end were of management override of internal controls, material on site at the year-end, we have supportable and that appropriate prices including testing journals and evaluating focused effort on this area to address the had been used to calculate the deferred whether there was evidence of bias by the risk of undetected material errors in the revenue balance.
directors that represented a risk of material recording of revenue and deferred revenue.
For all CGUs, we obtained the Key audit matters Impairment of tangible and discounted cash flow forecasts prepared Key audit matters are those matters that, in intangible assets by management.
Details of the key the auditors professional judgement, were of At 31 March 2018, the Group had 606.3m of assumptions included in the cash flow most significance in the audit of the financial goodwill and intangible assets and 623.0m forecasts prepared by the Group are statements of the current period and include of tangible assets on the Group balance included in notes 4.1 and 4.2. the most significant assessed risks of material sheet.
See notes 4.1 and 4.2 to the financial misstatement whether or not due to fraud statements respectively.
We evaluated the reasonability of the future identified by the auditors, including those cash flow forecasts by comparing them which had the greatest effect on: the overall The Group is required to annually assess with the latest Board approved budgets audit strategy: the allocation of resources the carrying value of goodwill by calculating and considering the historic accuracy of in the audit: and directing the efforts of the the recoverable amount based on the managements forecasts by comparing engagement team.
These matters, and any future cash flow estimates of the relevant prior year forecasts to actual outturn.
comments we make on the results of our cash generating unit CGU.
As a result of procedures thereon, were addressed in the performing value in use calculations, no Further, we challenged management on: context of our audit of the financial statements goodwill impairment charges have been as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, recorded by the Group for the year ended and we do not provide a separate opinion on Forecast revenue growth rates and 31 March 2018.
We focused on this area these matters.
This is not a complete list of all trading margins for the CGUs over the because the value in use calculations risks identified by our audit.
period of the forecasts: For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 113 | GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED KEY AUDIT MATTER THE KEY AUDIT MATTER include key assumptions and judgements in the calculation of the The key assumptions for long term growth rates in the forecasts recoverable amounts, namely forecast revenue growth rates, trading by comparing them with historical results and economic and margin, the long term growth rate and discount rate assumptions.
industry forecasts: and Separate to the consideration of the carrying value of goodwill, the The discount rate used.
Specifically, we recalculated the Groups Group must also consider whether any indicators of impairment weighted average cost of capital using market comparable have been identified in relation to other intangible assets subject to information and compared it to the rate calculated by amortisation and tangible assets subject to depreciation in CGUs management.
We also performed sensitivity analysis on the discounted cash flow forecasts and on the ability of the Group to generate the Accordingly, we focused on this area because the consideration of forecast cash flows.
Having ascertained the extent of change in whether indicators of impairment exist in CGUs without goodwill is those assumptions that either individually or collectively would judgemental.
be required for the goodwill, intangible and or tangible assets to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in An impairment charge of 3.0m has been recognised against those key assumptions arising and whether this would impact the plant and equipment, of which 1.8m relates to the fires in the assessment that no impairment is recognised for the year ended Netherlands and Belgium and 1.2m in the commercial division as 31 March 2018. part of the synergy delivery programme.
For all CGUs with goodwill, we were satisfied that the carrying value A further 3.2m impairment has been recognised against intangibles, of goodwill was supported by the value in use calculations and no relating to 1.9m of contract right intangibles in UK Municipal as it impairment charge was required.
has been determined they are no longer recoverable, and 1.3m of software intangibles in the Commercial Division due to the integration plans.
We focused on these impairments to verify whether the assumptions used in determining the quantum of the asset impairments were appropriate.
We have considered the appropriateness of the additions to the PFI contract accounting financial asset in Surrey which primarily relate to rectification works The Group has the operating contracts for seven PFI contracts that are required to bring the plant into an operable state.
We have in the UK A&B, D&G, Derby, ELWA, Cumbria, Derbyshire, BDR confirmed that these represent the fair value of construction services and Wakefield.
and therefore have been appropriately added to the financial asset, in line with IFRC 12.
See below for discussion of onerous contracts.
Separately, the Group is the primary obligor in connection with the construction and delivery of a waste management facility in Surrey Canada.
The key accounting judgements and estimates that management have applied in accounting for PFI PPP contracts are disclosed in note 4.4.
Our audit work on provisions focused on: PFI onerous contracts As disclosed in note 4.9 to the financial statements, the Group has Reading significant contracts entered into by the Group to onerous contract provisions of 95.9m in the Municipal division.
In determine whether any other contracts, other than those 2018 a provision was recognised in relation to Wakefield, and there identified by management, are onerous: was an increase to the BDR operating contract provision.
There were also further increases to the D&G provision.
Reading Board minutes to identify any relevant matters reported to the Board: and Due to their nature, these provisions are judgemental.
Where an onerous contract provision is recognised, the amount recognised is based on assumptions and estimates to calculate the expected For investors: www.
com 114 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED KEY AUDIT MATTER THE KEY AUDIT MATTER returns from the operating agreements over the life of the Discussions with management to understand the basis of the agreement.
These include the level of anticipated operational calculation of the provision.
efficiency, the cost base required, consumer behaviour regarding waste and recycling, and the use of an appropriate We reviewed the reasonableness of managements models which were risk free discount rate.
used to estimate the expected returns on the operating agreements.
We did this by considering the estimation accuracy of managements forecasts in light of actual outturn in the year and our knowledge of current market conditions.
Further, we challenged management on the forecast levels of operational efficiency, the estimated level of forecast costs required to deliver that operational performance, their views on future consumer behaviour and the impact that may have on the calculations, as well as the discount rate used.
Based on this work, we concluded that managements forecasts were reasonable and that where provisions were recognised, these had been calculated on an appropriate basis.
Accounting for other provisions Our audit work on provisions focused on: The Group operates in different jurisdictions and in an industry that is heavily regulated and subject to change.
Non-compliance Understanding the processes and controls in place to ensure with laws and regulations has the potential to lead to litigation and compliance and a discussion of any instances of non-compliance associated financial or reputational damage.
in the year with management: In addition to onerous contracts discussed above, as disclosed in Reading significant contracts entered into by the Group to note 4.9 to the financial statements, the Group has long term landfill determine whether any other contracts, other than those provisions for site restoration and aftercare of 117.1m at identified by management, are onerous: 31 March 2018.
Separately the Group has other provisions of 29.8m principally comprising restructuring obligations, dilapidations, longReading Board minutes to identify any relevant matters reported service employee awards, legal claims, warranties and indemnities.
to the Board: Due to their nature, these provisions are judgemental.
Changes to Meeting with in-house legal counsel to determine the status of the environment in which the Group operates can impact both the known claims against the Group and assess the appropriateness amounts required to settle the provision and the period over which of the associated provisions held: and the provision is recognised.
Discussions with management to understand the basis of the calculation of the provision.
In addition to the procedures above, for the Groups long term landfill provisions we specifically: Considered the estimation accuracy of the forecast spend on which the provision is based on our knowledge of the industry, the sites and contracts involved: and Considered the appropriateness of the discount rates applied to the forecast future cash flows in light of market risk free rates and the nature of the risks in the future cash flows.
Having performed the procedures above we found that the key assumptions applied to each provision, which differed depending on the nature of and duration of the provision, were appropriately supported.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 115 | GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED KEY AUDIT MATTER THE KEY AUDIT MATTER As part of our work on deferred tax, we have considered the Accounting for taxation appropriateness of managements assumptions and estimates in The Group has recognised 19.0m of a total potential deferred tax relation to the likelihood of generating suitable future taxable profits asset of 59.2m in respect of historic losses as at 31 March 2018.
See to support the recognition of deferred tax assets.
note 3.5 to the financial statements.
Specifically we assessed: The amount of deferred tax assets recognised is judgemental and is determined by reference to future forecasts of taxable profits.
Board approved budgets and forecasts against historic In the current year, the Group has increased the level of deferred performance by legal entity: tax asset recognised on historic losses with a corresponding change in deferred tax assets on temporary differences mainly Whether taxable differences result in taxable amounts against due to the changes in the new UK corporate tax loss relief rules.
which unused tax losses can be utilised: and Future forecasts of taxable profits remained largely unchanged.
The historic level of utilisation of deferred tax assets.
Having performed the procedures above we consider that the assumptions applied in the recognition of deferred tax assets at 31 March 2018 were reasonable.
We considered the appropriateness of the amounts classified as Presentation of non-trading and exceptional items non-trading and exceptional.
In order to do this we considered: The Group presents two measures of performance in the Income Statement: statutory and underlying, the latter after adjusting for The Groups accounting policy on exceptional and noncertain items of income or expense as management believes these trading items: and measures provide additional useful information on the underlying trends, performance and position of the Group.
Pronouncements by the Financial Reporting Council on this matter.
The determination of which items of income or expense are classified as exceptional or non-trading is subject to judgement and We challenged management on the appropriateness of the therefore users of the accounts could be misled if amounts are not classification of such items being mindful that classification classified appropriately.
should be even handed between gains and losses, the basis for the classification clearly disclosed, and applied consistently from one A description of the amounts presented as non-trading or year to the next.
exceptional is included in note 3.4 to the financial statements.
Our work highlighted certain items that management had classified.
as exceptional which were judgemental.
Having considered the nature and quantum of these items, overall we are satisfied that the presentation of non-trading and exceptional items in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2018 is appropriate.
We determined that there were no key audit accounting processes and controls, and the The Group financial statements are a matters applicable to the parent company to industry in which they operate.
consolidation of seven reporting units communicate in our report.
being Netherlands Commercial, Belgium The Groups accounting function is structured Commercial, Hazardous Waste, UK Municipal, How we tailored the audit scope into local or regional finance centres for Canada Municipal, Monostreams and Group We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure each of the territories in which the Group Central Services.
Of the Groups seven that we performed enough work to be able to operates.
These functions maintain their own reporting units, we identified Netherlands give an opinion on the financial statements accounting records and controls and reports to Commercial, Belgium Commercial, Hazardous as a whole, taking into account the structure the head office finance team in Milton Keynes Waste, UK Municipal and Group Central of the Group and the parent company, the UK through integrated consolidation system.
Services which, in our view, required an audit For investors: www.
com 116 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 of their complete financial information due to audit teams we determined the level of Materiality their size compared to the Group.
involvement we needed to have in the audit The scope of our audit was influenced by work at those reporting units to be able to our application of materiality.
We set certain Additional procedures were performed over conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, non-reporting components, which included evidence had been obtained as a basis for our together with qualitative considerations, specified procedures and analytical review.
opinion on the Group financial statements as helped us to determine the scope of our a whole.
This included attendance at a audit and the nature, timing and extent of our In establishing the overall approach to the planning day held with the component audit procedures on the individual financial Group audit, we determined the type of work teams in Eindhoven as well as attendance statement line items and disclosures and in that needed to be performed at the reporting by the Group engagement team at the evaluating the effect of misstatements, both units by us, as the Group engagement team clearance meetings held for the Netherlands individually and in aggregate on the financial who were also responsible for the audit of Commercial, Belgium Commercial, Hazardous statements as a whole.
the Municipal reporting unit, or component Waste and Monostreams reporting units and auditors from other PwC network firms a review of the audit working papers of Based on our professional judgement, we operating under our instruction.
Where the our component teams by the Group determined materiality for the financial work was performed by our component engagement team.
statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality 7.5m 2017: 3.8m 5.2m 2017: 3.8m How we determined it 0.5% of revenue.
Rationale for Given the growth of the Group through the acquisition of Van We believe that net assets is the primary measure used by benchmark applied Gansewinkel Groep BV in prior year, we considered that the the shareholders in assessing the performance of the parent benchmark applied historically did not adequately reflect company, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
the scale of the enlarged Groups operations.
In determining In determining materiality for 2018, we considered a range materiality for 2018, we considered a range of benchmarks, of benchmarks including total assets which we felt inflated including underlying profit before tax, EBITDA and revenue.
materiality and as such have chosen a net asset materiality This resulted in an indicative overall materiality ranging up to for 2018.
In our professional judgement, we concluded that an appropriate level of materiality for the 2018 audit would be neither at the upper nor lower end of the range.
Therefore, we selected an overall materiality level of 7.5m which equates to 0.5% of revenue for the year.
For each component in the scope of our statutory audit materiality that was also less Group audit 2017: 200,000 and 259,000 Group audit, we allocated a materiality that than our overall group materiality.
parent company audit 2017: 200,000 as is less than our overall group materiality.
well as misstatements below those amounts The range of materiality allocated across We agreed with the Audit Committee that that, in our view, warranted reporting for components was between 3.0m and 6.9m.
we would report to them misstatements qualitative reasons.
Certain components were audited to a local identified during our audit above 365,000 For customers: www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 117 | GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, because attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going guarantee as to the groups and parent companys ability to continue as a concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the going concern.
directors identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information consider whether the other information is With respect to the Strategic Report and The other information comprises all of the materially inconsistent with the financial Directors Report, we also considered whether information in the Annual Report other than statements or our knowledge obtained in the the disclosures required by the UK Companies the financial statements and our auditors audit, or otherwise appears to be materially Act 2006 have been included.
The directors are responsible misstated.
If we identify an apparent material for the other information.
Our opinion on inconsistency or material misstatement, we are Based on the responsibilities described above the financial statements does not cover the required to perform procedures to conclude and our work undertaken in the course of the other information and, accordingly, we do whether there is a material misstatement audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs not express an audit opinion or, except to the of the financial statements or a material UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, misstatement of the other information.
If, Conduct Authority FCA require us also any form of assurance thereon.
based on the work we have performed, we to report certain opinions and matters as conclude that there is a material misstatement described below required by ISAs UK unless In connection with our audit of the financial of this other information, we are required to otherwise stated.
statements, our responsibility is to read report that fact.
We have nothing to report the other information and, in doing so, based on these responsibilities.
STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
com 118 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 79 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 79 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules OTHER CODE PROVISIONS We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 111, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 86 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors DIRECTORS REMUNERATION In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL In preparing the financial statements, the and to issue an auditors report that includes STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT directors are responsible for assessing the our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high groups and the parent companys ability level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that Responsibilities of the directors for to continue as a going concern, disclosing an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs the financial statements as applicable, matters related to going UK will always detect a material misstatement As explained more fully in the Directors concern and using the going concern basis of when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from Responsibilities Statement set out on page accounting unless the directors either intend fraud or error and are considered material if, 111, the directors are responsible for the to liquidate the group or the parent company individually or in the aggregate, they could preparation of the financial statements in or to cease operations, or have no realistic reasonably be expected to influence the accordance with the applicable framework alternative but to do so.
economic decisions of users taken on the basis and for being satisfied that they give a true of these financial statements.
The directors are also responsible Auditors responsibilities for the audit for such internal control as they determine of the financial statements A further description of our responsibilities for is necessary to enable the preparation of Our objectives are to obtain reasonable the audit of the financial statements is located financial statements that are free from assurance about whether the financial on the FRCs website at: www.
uk material misstatement, whether due to statements as a whole are free from material .
This description forms fraud or error.
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, part of our auditors report.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2018 RENEWI plc 119 | GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Use of this report OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our for any other purpose or to any other person to opinion: whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our prior consent in writing.
our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
APPOINTMENT Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the members on 11 May 1994 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 1995 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 24 years, covering the years ended 31 March 1995 to 31 March 2018.
Matthew Mullins Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 24 May 2018 For investors: www.
com 120 RENEWI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
