Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 113 Independent auditors report to the members of RELX PLC OPINION In our opinion: RELX PLC and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates RELX s group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of RELX PLC which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 Statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Related notes 1 to 3 to the financial statements including then ended a summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 30 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 60 to 63 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 60 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 80 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 82 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
114 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Financial statements and other information OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters Uncertain tax positions Internally developed intangible assets Aspects of revenue recognition Carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets Finance systems Accounting for the corporate simplification Acquisition accounting for significant new business combinations Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further seven components.
We also instructed two locations to perform specified procedures.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 81% of absolute profit before tax, 80% of revenue and 75% of total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 90m which represents 5% of profit before tax.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Uncertain tax positions Our procedures on the uncertain tax positions were We reported our performed centrally by the group team supported by conclusions to the Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 106 and Note overseas teams including specialists, and included Audit Committee that 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 138 the following: we challenged the The group is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions.
robustness of the We assessed the processes and tested controls over the Its complex organisation and operational structure key management tax provisioning process.
gives rise to potential tax exposures that require judgements.
We management to exercise significant judgement in We met with tax management to understand the group confirmed that we making determinations as to the amount of tax cross-border transactions, status of all significant were satisfied that that is payable.
provisions, and any changes to managements managements judgements in the year.
The group reports cross-border transactions judgements in undertaken between subsidiaries on an arms-length We read correspondence with tax authorities and relation to the extent basis in tax returns in accordance with Organisation external advisors to inform our assessment of recorded of provisions for for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD estimates and evaluate the completeness of the uncertain tax positions guidelines.
However, transfer pricing relies on the provisions recorded.
We exercise of judgement and it is frequently possible noted further that there We evaluated managements methodology to record or for there to be a range of legitimate and reasonable continues to be a high release provisions following tax audits, settlements and views.
degree of uncertainty the expiry of timeframes.
about the eventual The group is subject to tax authority audits as We tested the calculation of the year end provisions by outcome of many of a matter of routine and has a number of open inspecting underlying documentation and supporting these provisions.
As a result, it has recognised a number of provisions against uncertain tax positions, the valuation of which requires significant judgement.
We focused on this area due to the significance of the balance and the subjectivity in the quantification of the provision and the judgement around the trigger for recognition or release.
There is a risk that the tax provisions may be incorrectly quantified, impacting the provision and the effective tax rate.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Independent auditors report to the members of RELX PLC 115 KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Internally developed intangible assets We performed full and specific scope audit procedures Based on the over internally developed intangible assets in 4 locations, procedures performed, Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 106 and Note which covered 75% of the account balance, including the we did not identify any 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 144 following: evidence of material The group capitalised internally developed intangible misstatement in the We assessed the processes and tested controls for the assets of 304 million in the current year 2017: 304 capitalisation of capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets.
million and has a year end net book value of 1,217 internally developed million 2017: 1,136 million.
The capitalisation of We assessed the accounting policy and methodology for intangible assets.
costs related to the development of new products and capitalisation of expenditures.
business infrastructure, together with the useful We evaluated the accuracy and valuation of amounts economic lives applied to the resulting assets, capitalised to assess that costs are directly attributable requires the exercise of judgement.
and necessary to create, produce, and prepare the asset We focused on this area as the group has invested to be capable of operating in the manner intended by significantly in several projects across the business.
It is inherently judgemental with respect to technical feasibility, intention and ability to complete the intangible asset, ability to use or sell the asset, ability to generate future economic benefits and ability to measure the costs reliably.
This results in a risk that expenditures may be inappropriately capitalised, amortised or valued.
Aspects of revenue recognition We performed full and specific scope audit procedures Based on the over revenue in 12 locations, which covered 80% of procedures performed, Refer to Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements revenue.
We performed procedures to address the we did not identify page 128 specific risk in each business area, including the following: evidence of material The group earns revenue from a variety of sources misstatement in the We assessed the processes and tested controls over among the different business areas, including annual revenue recognised in each significant revenue stream.
subscriptions, transactional usage and exhibition the year.
The nature of the risk associated with the We evaluated the appropriateness of journal entries accurate recording of revenue varies.
impacting revenue, as well as other adjustments made in the preparation of the financial statements.
We also We recognise that revenue is a key metric upon which evaluated managements controls over such the group is judged, that the group has annual internal adjustments.
targets, and that the group has incentive schemes that are partially impacted by revenue growth.
We inspected a sample of contracts to check that revenue recognition was in accordance with the We have determined that there is a risk in relation to contract terms and the groups revenue recognition each of the business areas related to the opportunity policies.
to commit fraud in the respective revenue streams through manual adjustments or override of controls We tested a sample of transactions around period end to by management.
test that revenue was recorded in the correct period.
For revenue streams that have judgemental elements, we evaluated managements assumptions.
116 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Financial statements and other information KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Carrying value of goodwill and acquired Procedures on the carrying value of goodwill and acquired We reported our intangible assets intangible assets were performed centrally by the group conclusions to the Audit team supported by overseas teams including specialists, Committee that the Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 106 and Note and included the following: assumptions relating to 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 144 the impairment models We assessed the processes and tested controls over the We focused on this area because of the size of the fell within acceptable goodwill and acquired intangible asset process.
goodwill balance of 6,899 million 2017: 5,965 ranges.
million : the size of the acquired intangible assets net We assessed the key information and assumptions used Based on the book amount of 2,317 million 2017: 2,058 million : in determining the valuation including the weighted procedures performed, and the fact that managements assessment of the average cost of capital, cash flow forecasts and the we agree with value in use of the groups Cash Generating Units implicit growth, utilising our specialist support as managements CGU and any possible consequential impairment necessary.
We also conducted a sensitivity analysis to conclusion that no involves judgement about the future results of the understand by how much these projections would need material impairment of relevant CGUs and the discount rates applied to cash to change by for there to be an impairment.
goodwill or intangible flow forecasts.
We assessed managements annual goodwill and assets was required in indefinite lived acquired intangible asset impairment the year.
review as well as managements consideration as to whether indicators of impairment existed for finite lived acquired intangible assets.
Where indicators were present for acquired intangible assets, we focused on the key judgements in the impairment review calculations, for example, the expected cash flows and future benefits as compared to the costs where applicable.
Finance systems We utilised IT specialists to support our evaluation of the Based on the design and operation of IT controls to address the groups procedures performed, The group has many IT systems that are vital control objectives and financial reporting risks, including we have not identified to the ongoing operations and to the integrity of the the following: any misstatements in financial reporting process.
Owing to the global the financial statements nature of the group and its operations, the We made enquiries of management to understand the IT due to any limitations of applications, associated infrastructure and IT environment and walked through the financial the IT environment.
Our processes that support significant business and processes end-to-end in order to understand where IT understanding and financial processes are spread across a number of systems were integral to the group accounting testing of IT systems and locations.
These are delivered by a mix of in-house processes, as applicable.
controls supported our teams and third party support providers some of We performed data analytic procedures in certain audit approach.
whom reside in different countries from the physical locations and business areas to understand the flow of location of the IT infrastructure or the location of the transactions and perform specific test procedures.
Understanding the IT We tested the IT general controls environment for the environment including interfaces between them was key applications.
an area of audit focus to assess if transactions were Where appropriate, we received reports from the being processed accurately.
service auditors of the outsourced systems and evaluated the adequacy of the work performed and followed up on matters arising, performing further procedures as necessary.
Where required, we tested compensating controls or performed alternative procedures to complement the controls based audit approach.
Accounting for the corporate simplification Procedures on the accounting for the corporate Based on the simplification were performed centrally by the group team procedures performed, Refer to Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements supported by our team in the Netherlands and specialists, we reported to the Audit page 126 as necessary.
Committee that On 8 September 2018, the structure of group was managements We assessed the accounting for the transaction including further simplified from a dual parent structure to a judgements in relation whether the transaction was considered a merger or single parent structure by way of a merger of RELX to the accounting for the acquisition, the impact on earnings per share, share based PLC and RELX NV.
Following the completion of the corporate simplification payments and share capital.
Simplification, RELX PLC is the sole parent company of the group are of the group.
It owns 100% of the shares in RELX Group We also evaluated the disclosure in the financial appropriate, as are the plc which, in turn, holds the operating businesses, statements including accounting for the restructure in the related disclosures.
subsidiaries and financing activities of the group.
We focused on this area as it was a significant and unusual transaction.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Independent auditors report to the members of RELX PLC 117 KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Acquisition accounting for significant new We performed audit procedures on 7 of the acquisitions We did not identify business combinations made during the year, including ThreatMetrix.
For each of evidence of material the acquisitions tested: misstatement in the Refer to Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial allocation of the Statements page 143 We assessed the processes and tested controls in the purchase price to business combination process where acquisitions were During the year ended 31 December 2018, the identifiable assets significant.
group made several acquisitions totalling 955 acquired and liabilities million as detailed in Note 12.
The most significant We assessed with the assistance of our internal assumed in these acquisition was ThreatMetrix for total consideration valuation specialists as necessary, the methodology acquisitions recognised of 585 million.
and key assumptions used in determining the purchase in the year.
price allocation made by management.
Key The company assessed, with the assistance of third assumptions evaluated were discount rates, terminal party valuation specialists where required, the growth rates, cash flow projections, net assets acquired completeness and fair value of identifiable assets and useful lives assigned.
acquired and liabilities assumed in these acquisitions.
We read documents such as sale and purchase agreements, board papers and due diligence reports to We focused on this area due to the materiality of the assess the consistency and completeness of the fair acquisitions and because the assessment of fair value value adjustments recorded.
of identifiable assets is inherently judgemental.
We evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures provided by the group in Note 12 in relation to its acquisitions.
In the current year, our key audit matters introduced the Accounting for the corporate simplification of the group as it is a significant one-time transaction.
Additionally, our key audit matters also introduced Acquisition accounting for significant new business combinations due to the total consideration expended in the year.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The group has centralised processes for key judgements and determination of accounting policies.
Certain areas of audit focus, namely internally developed intangible assets, revenue recognition, and IT system management are decentralised processes delineated by business area.
We have tailored our audit response accordingly and procedures for the areas of focus were performed or directed by the group audit team.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, we selected thirteen components covering entities within United Kingdom, the Netherlands, the United States, France, Switzerland, and Japan, which represent the principal business units within the group.
Of the thirteen components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining seven components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
We also instructed two locations to perform specified procedures over certain aspects of acquisition accounting for significant new business combinations, as described in the Risk section above.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 81% 2017: 79% of the groups profit before tax on an 1 absolute basis, 80% 2017: 78% of the groups Revenue and 75% 2017: 78% of the groups Total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 57% 2017: 57% of the groups profit before tax on an absolute basis, 70% 2017: 70% of the groups Revenue and 67% 2017: 70% of the groups Total assets.
The specific scope components contributed 23% 2017: 22% of the groups profit before tax on an absolute basis, 10% 2017: 8% of the groups Revenue and 8% 2017: 8% of the groups Total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant tested for the group.
Of the remaining components that together represent 19% of the groups profit before tax on an absolute basis, none are individually greater than 2% of the groups profit before tax on an absolute basis.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, review of internal audit reports, and testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations at the group level to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the group financial statements.
1 Coverage of profit before tax measured on an absolute basis for each component components with a loss would be added to both the numerator and denominator.
118 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Financial statements and other information The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
REVENUE PROFIT BEFORE TAX ABSOLUTE TOTAL ASSETS 19% 20% 25% 10% 57% 8% 23% 70% 67% Full scope Specific scope Other procedures Changes from the prior year Changes from the prior year include increasing scope of one component from other procedures scope to specific scope as part of risk focused approach.
We have also added one component to specific scope and instructed two locations to perform specified procedures as a result of acquisitions.
The corporate structure has also been simplified in the year to a single parent company structure, with RELX PLC as the surviving company.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the six full scope components, audit procedures were performed on three of these directly by the primary audit team.
For the seven specific scope components and two specified procedure locations, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group as a whole.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor, or another group audit partner, meet with the all full scope locations and specific scope locations on a rotational basis.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the primary audit team to component teams in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, the United States, France, Switzerland, and Japan.
These visits involved meeting local management and discussing the audit approach and any issues arising with the component audit team.
The group audit team also participated in key discussions, via conference calls with all full and specic scope locations.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the group financial statements.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the group to be 90 million 2017: 86.7 million, which is 5% 2017: 5% of profit before tax.
We believe that profit before tax provides us with the best assessment of the requirements of the users of the financial statements.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be 90 million 2017: 63.4 million, which is 0.5% 2017: 2% of equity.
Materiality has increased due to the changes in equity following the corporate simplification.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 67.5 million 2017: 65.0m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our assessment of the control environment and the historic lack of significant audit findings.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 19.4 million to 48.4 million 2017: 19.5 million to 48.7 million.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Independent auditors report to the members of RELX PLC 119 Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 4.5 million 2017: 4.35 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 2 to 111, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 80 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on page 106 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 72 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 108, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
120 RELX Annual report and financial statements 2018 | Financial statements and other information Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined that the most significant are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 101, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
We understood how RELX PLC is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the company secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes and papers provided to the Audit Committee.
We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their propensity to influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings.
We considered the programmes and controls that the group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those programmes and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of legal counsel, Group management, internal audit, country management at all full and specific scope management: and focused testing.
In addition, we completed procedures to conclude on the compliance of the disclosures in the annual report and accounts with all applicable requirements.
Any instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations were communicated by to components and considered in our audit approach, if applicable.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 21 April 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is three years, covering the years ending 2016 to 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain independent of the group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Hywel Ball Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 20 February 2019 Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the RELX PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
