Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc Opinion Basis for opinion In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable Renishaw plcs group financial statements and parent law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further company financial statements the financial statements described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of of the financial statements section of our report below.
the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2018 and of We are independent of the group and parent company in the groups profit for the year then ended: accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant the group financial statements have been properly to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public European Union: interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical the parent company financial statements have been responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the financial statements have been prepared in Conclusions relating to principal risks, accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, goingconcern and viability statement Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs We have audited the financial statements of Renishaw plc UK require us to report to you whether we have anything which comprise: material to add or draw attention to: Group Parent company the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 34 to Consolidated balance Balance sheet as at 30 36 that describe the principal risks and explain how they sheet as at 30 June 2018 June 2018 are being managed or mitigated: Consolidated income Statement of changes in the directors confirmation set out on page 34 in the statement for the year equity for the year then annual report that they have carried out a robust then ended ended assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, Consolidated statement Related notes C1 to C40 future performance, solvency or liquidity: of comprehensive income to the financial statements and expense for the year including a summary of the directors statement set out on page 53 about then ended significant accounting whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the policies going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to Consolidated statement of the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of changes in equity for the at least twelve months from the date of approval of the year then ended financial statements: Consolidated statement whether the directors statement in relation to going of cash flows for the year concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance then ended with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with Related notes 1 to 24 to our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the financial statements, the directors explanation set out on page 37 in the annual including a summary of report as to how they have assessed the prospects significant accounting of the entity, over what period they have done so and policies why they consider that period to be appropriate, and The financial reporting framework that has been applied their statement as to whether they have a reasonable in the preparation of the group financial statements is expectation that the entity will be able to continue applicable law and International Financial Reporting in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
over the period of their assessment, including any The financial reporting framework that has been applied in related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary the preparation of the parent company financial statements qualifications or assumptions.
is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
76 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Revenue recognition due to susceptibility to management override through inappropriate manual journals.
Assessment of hedging activities in accordance with IAS 39.
Accounting for the liabilities associated with defined benefit pension schemes.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of eight components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further five components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 95% of Profitbefore tax, 89% of Revenue and 88% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 6.5m which represents 4.2% of Group profit before tax for both continuing and discontinued operations.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue recognition due to the We performed walkthroughs of the consolidation Based on the audit susceptibility to management process at various month ends throughout the year, procedures performed override through inappropriate including the interim and year end to assess the design manual entries were manual entries.
and implementation of key controls over the manual appropriate, including consolidation process.
post close adjustments Refer to the Audit Committee Report during the consolidation For a number of reporting units, which covered 35% of page 57 : Accounting policies page process.
total revenue, as part of our overall revenue recognition 92 : and Note 2 of the Consolidated testing we used data analysis tools on 100% of revenue Our journal entry Financial Statements pages 95 to 96. transactions in the year to test the correlation of revenue testing procedures did We consider that the vast majority to cash receipts to verify the occurrence of revenue.
We not identify instances of Renishaws revenue transactions tested non-correlating entries with detailed testing of a of inappropriate reported under existing IFRS guidance sample of sales transactions to ensure that revenue had management override are routine, non-complex, and systems been appropriately recognised.
in the recognition of driven, with no judgement applied over revenue across the the recorded amount.
For those in-scope locations where we did not use data Group.
analysis tools we performed more focused journal entry However, the accounting for revenues testing on manual journal entries to revenue.
is susceptible to management override through the recording of manual Other audit procedures specifically designed to address topside journal entries either in the the risk of management override included using data underlying ledgers or during the extracted from the accounting system to test the consolidation process.
appropriateness of journal entries impacting revenue, as well as other adjustments made in the preparation of We focused on this area due to the the financial statements, with a focus on selecting and manual nature of the consolidation testing manual journals.
process and the non-routine judgemental nature of some of the For all full and specific scope locations we manual journals posted.
independently verified the results of the consolidated entities used in the manual consolidation by agreeing the results included in the consolidation directly to the results audited by the component audit teams.
For a sample of the remaining entities we verified the results of the consolidated entities to the underlying source data.
We selected all consolidation journals exceeding 15% of performance materiality and obtained evidence to verify the validity and accuracy of the journals being posted.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in nine locations, which covered 89% of the Groups revenue, of which the Primary Team performed the procedures in three locations which covered 35% of the Groups revenue.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 77 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc continued Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Assessment of hedging activities We gained an understanding of the key controls and Based on the audit in accordance with IAS 39 19.4m, processes in place to assess the hedging effectiveness procedures performed FY17: 31.0m.
we confirmed that the groups assessment Refer to the Audit Committee Report We ensured that the requirements of IAS 39 Financial of hedging activities page 58 : Accounting policies page Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 for the year ended 92 : and Note 20 of the Consolidated were met by: 30 June 2018 and Financial Statements pages 108 to 111. the disclosures within ensuring the appropriateness of the methodology The group uses derivative financial Note 20 were in used by management to hedge account.
Through the instruments to manage risks arising from accordance with the involvement of our treasury specialists we reviewed a changes in foreign currency exchange requirements of IAS 39, sample, spanning all banks and counterparties that rates relating to forecast sales.
Financial Instruments: Renishaw has deals with, of the terms and conditions The Group designates certain Recognition and of the different categories of forward currency derivatives as hedges of a particular Measurement.
contracts open at the year end and determined risk associated with a recognised asset whether hedge accounting was permissible under or liability or a highly probable forecast IAS 39. transaction cash flow hedge.
Hedge using our treasury specialists to evaluate accounting is discontinued when the managements documentation and assessment hedging instrument expires or is sold, of hedge effectiveness for a sample of hedge terminated or exercised, or no longer effectiveness model types.
ensuring that the financial statement disclosures were Changes in the fair value of foreign in accordance with accounting standards.
currency derivatives which are ineffective or do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting in IAS 39 are recognised in the income statement.
Given the complexity of hedge accounting, the criteria for hedge effectiveness documentation under the provisions of IAS 39 and the material differences identified during our FY17 audit which impacted the FY16 results we continued to focus on this area.
78 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Accounting for the liabilities We understood and walked through managements Based on the audit associated with defined benefit process and methodology for calculating the pension procedures performed pension schemes 240.2m, liability to gain an understanding of the design and we are satisfied that FY17: 237.5m.
the closing liability is materially correct and Refer to the Audit Committee Report We evaluated the competence and objectivity of that in combination page 58 : Accounting policies page managements external actuarial experts.
the judgements made 94 : and Note 14 of the Consolidated We obtained the IAS 19 actuarial valuations for in relation to the Financial Statements pages 104 to the UK and Irish Pension Schemes as prepared underlying actuarial 106. by managements experts and considered the assumptions are A defined benefit pension liability reasonableness and consistency of the methodology appropriate.
of 240.2m has been recorded on used to calculate the pension liabilities through We are satisfied that the balance sheet at 30 June 2018 involvement of our actuarial specialists.
the disclosure in Note in respect of Group schemes.
As a We used our internal actuarial specialists to assess 14 is aligned with the result of the quantum of this liability, and challenge the appropriateness of the significant requirements of IAS 19. the level of judgement involved in assumptions used in determining the defined benefit calculating the closing liability, and the pension liabilities including the discount rate, RPI and fact that relatively small movements in CPI inflation assumptions and mortality assumptions.
assumptions can result in a material Specifically, we ensured these fell within an acceptable impact to the financial statements range on benchmarking these against our internally there is an increased risk of material accepted actuarial assumptions.
We assessed the appropriateness and adequacy of the Whilst management utilises the services disclosures in respect of the defined pension liability in of third party actuarial advisors to Note 14 of the annual report.
determine their key assumptions, there is a risk that the discount rate, rate of inflation and mortality assumptions used in the calculation are inappropriate.
We have omitted the following areas in the auditors report that were included in the prior year: revenue recognition as a result of inappropriate cut off via manipulation of timing of revenue recognition, the valuation of the Groups forward currency derivatives, and the carrying value of goodwill.
Whilst we determined that these were areas of increased risk for our audit they were not assessed as being areas subject to significant Management judgement or areas where there were significant findings in our audit.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 79 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit Profit before tax Tailoring the scope 94% Full Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality scope components and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, 1% Specific scope components this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, 5% Other procedures the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Groupwide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
Revenue In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Groups 87% Full financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate scope components quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 50 reporting components of the 2% Specific Group, we selected 13 components covering entities in scope components China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Italy, 11% Other procedures Japan, South Korea, United Kingdom and United States of America, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
rotation to line up Of the 13 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of eight components Total assets full scope components which were selected based 83% Full on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining scope components five components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within 5% Specific that component that we considered had the potential for the scope components greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial 12% Other procedures statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 95% 2017: 94% of the Groups Changes from the prior year Profit before tax, 89% 2017: 92% of the Groups Revenue and 88% 2017: 90% of the Groups Total assets.
For the There were the following changes in scope from the prior current year, the full scope components contributed year to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able 94% 2017: 93% of the Groups Profit before tax, 87% to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole 2017: 87% of the Groups Revenue and 83% 2017: 81% taking into account the structure of the Group and company of the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope components and the level of activity of each group company within contributed 1% 2017: 1% of the Groups Profit before tax, the year: Renishaw UK Sales Limited, a new fully active 2% 2017: 5% of the Groups Revenue and 5% 2017: 9% business unit, was designated as a full scope component of the Groups Total assets.
The audit scope of these for the current year audit, Renishaw SAS and itp GmbH components may not have included testing of all significant were designated as specific scope components for the accounts of the component but will have contributed to the current year audit, review scope in the prior year, while the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
scope for Renishaw Mexico was reduced from specific scope in the prior year to review scope in the current year, Of the remaining 37 components that together represent 5% and Renishaw Iberica and Renishaw Shanghai Management of the Groups Profit before tax, none are individually greater Limited were not scoped in in the current year, both were than 5% of the Groups Profit before tax.
For a sample specific scope in the prior year.
of these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review to respond to any potential risks Involvement with component teams of material misstatement to the Groups financial statements.
In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken The charts opposite illustrate the coverage obtained from at each of the components by us, as the primary audit the work performed by our audit teams.
engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the eight full scope components, audit procedures were performed on three of these directly by the primary audit team, and of the five specific scope components audit procedures were performed on three of these directly by the primary audit team.
For the remaining five full scope components and two specific scope components, where the 80 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information work was performed by component auditors, we determined Audit work at component locations for the purpose of the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment by the primary audit team to the component teams in Ireland of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current and the United States of America.
These visits involved year, the range of performance materiality allocated to discussing the audit approach with the component teams, components was 0.3m to 3m 2017: 0.5m to 2.3m.
discussing key risk areas, meeting with local management, Reporting threshold and attending planning meetings.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where An amount below which identified misstatements are appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed considered as being clearly trivial.
key working papers, attended all closing meetings via We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to video conferencing facilities and were responsible for the them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.325m scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together 2017: 0.235m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, with the additional procedures performed at Group level, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both Our application of materiality the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above We apply the concept of materiality in planning and and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified forming our opinion.
misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Other information Materiality The other information comprises the information included The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, in the annual report set out on pages 1 to 74, including the individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be Strategic Report, set out on pages 1 to 43, Governance, expected to influence the economic decisions of the users set out on pages 44 to 74, and Shareholder information, of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for set out on pages 126 to 128, other than the financial determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors We determined materiality for the Group to be 6.5 million are responsible for the other information.
2017: 4.7 million, which is 4.2% 2017: 4.6% of Group Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover Profit before tax for continuing and discontinued operations.
the other information and, except to the extent otherwise We believe that Group Profit before tax for continuing and explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of discontinued operations provides us with a consistent yearassurance conclusion thereon.
on-year basis for determining materiality and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark for listed entities.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be so, consider whether the other information is materially 2.5 million 2017: 2.8 million, which is 3.0% of Profit inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge before tax and dividends received, 2017: 5.0% of Profit obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially before tax, dividends received and other one-off items.
If we identify such material inconsistencies We believe that Profit before tax and dividends received or apparent material misstatements, we are required to provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determine whether there is a material misstatement in the determining materiality.
financial statements or a material misstatement of the other Performance materiality information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other The application of materiality at the individual account information, we are required to report that fact.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the We have nothing to report in this regard.
aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard exceeds materiality.
to our responsibility to specifically address the following On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our items in the other information and to report as uncorrected assessment of the Groups overall control environment, material misstatements of the other information where we our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% conclude that those items meet the following conditions: 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 4.875m 2017: 3.5m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to the past history of few misstatements in routine non-complex areas indicating a lower risk of misstatement in the financial statements.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 81 Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc continued Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 53 Responsibilities of directors the statement given by the directors that they consider As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities the annual report and financial statements taken as a statement set out on page 75, the directors are responsible whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides for the preparation of the financial statements and for being the information necessary for shareholders to assess the satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such groups performance, business model and strategy, is internal control as the directors determine is necessary to materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the enable the preparation of financial statements that are free audit: or from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Audit committee reporting set out on pages 56 to 59 In preparing the financial statements, the directors are the section describing the work of the audit committee responsible for assessing the group and parent companys does not appropriately address matters communicated by ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as us to the audit committee or applicable, matters related to going concern and using the Directors statement of compliance with the UK going concern basis of accounting unless the directors Corporate Governance Code set out on page 54 either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company the parts of the directors statement required under or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance do so.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly financial statements disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about Corporate Governance Code.
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from Opinions on other matters prescribed by the material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Companies Act 2006 Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement with the Companies Act 2006. when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course error and are considered material if, individually or in the of the audit: aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these the information given in the strategic report and the financial statements.
directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Explanation as to what extent the audit was financial statements: and considered capable of detecting irregularities, the strategic report and the directors report have including fraud been prepared in accordance with applicable The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to legal requirements.
identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of Matters on which we are required to report by the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks exception of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond group and the parent company and its environment appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the material misstatements in the strategic report or the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those directors report.
charged with governance of the entity and management.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters Our approach was as follows: in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group adequate accounting records have not been kept by the and determined that the most significant are those that parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have relate to the reporting framework IFRS, IFRS 101 and the not been received from branches not visited by us: or Companies Act 2006, the Financial Reporting Council the parent company financial statements and the part of FRC and the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not the relevant tax compliance regulations in the UK and in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or overseas jurisdictions in which the Group operates as certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by referred to in the Tailoring the Scope paragraph above.
law are not made: or In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the we have not received all the information and explanations determination of the amounts and disclosures in the we require for our audit.
financial statements being the Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange, the Bribery Act 2010, Occupational Health and Safety Regulations, the Data Protection Act, and export controls.
82 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We understood how Renishaw plc is complying with Other matters we are required to address those frameworks by reading internal policies and We were appointed by the company at its annual general codes of conduct and assessing the entity level control meeting on 13 October 2016 to audit the financial environment, including the level of oversight of those statements for the year ended 30 June 2017 and charged with governance.
We made enquires of the subsequent financial periods.
Groups legal counsel and internal audit of known The period of total uninterrupted engagement including instances of non-compliance or suspected nonprevious renewals and reappointments is two years, compliance with laws and regulations.
We corroborated covering the years ended 30 June 2017 to 30 June 2018. our enquiries through review of correspondence with The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical regulatory bodies.
We designed our audit procedures to Standard were not provided to the group or the parent identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations company and we remain independent of the group and identified in the paragraph above.
As well as enquiry the parent company in conducting the audit.
and attendance at meetings, our procedures involved a review of board meetings and other committee minutes The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to to identify any non-compliance with laws and regulations.
Our procedures also involved journal entry testing, with a Use of our report focus on journals meeting our defined risk criteria based on our understanding of the business.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken statements to material misstatement, including how so that we might state to the companys members those fraud might occur by considering the programs and matters we are required to state to them in an auditors controls that the Group has established to address risks report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent identified by the entity, or that otherwise prevent, deter permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility and detect fraud: how senior management monitor those to anyone other than the company and the companys programs and controls, evaluating conditions in the members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for context of incentive pressure to commit fraud, considering the opinions we have formed.
the opportunity to commit fraud and the potential rationalisation of the fraudulent act, and by making enquiries of senior management, including the Group Finance Director, Group Internal Audit Manager and Audit Paul Mapleston] Committee Chair.
We planned our audit to identify risks of Senior statutory auditor management override, tested higher risk journal entries for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor and performed audit procedures to address the potential Bristol for management bias, particularly over areas involving significant estimation.
Further discussion of our approach 26 July 2018 to address the identified risks of management override are set out in the key audit matters section of our report.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved making enquiries of key management and legal counsel, reviewing key policies, inspecting correspondence with regulators and reading key management meeting minutes.
We also completed procedures to conclude on the compliance of significant disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts with the requirements of the relevant accounting standards, UK legislation and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We communicated regularly with component teams, management and legal counsel in order to identify and communicate any instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
The maintenance and integrity of the Renishaw plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 83 Financial statements Contents Introduction The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The full statement of Directors responsibilities can be found on page 75.
The Independent auditors report to the members of Renishaw plc starting on page 76 provides more detail about how our auditors have planned and conducted their audit, as well as their views on significant matters they have noted and that were discussed by the Audit Committee.
The Notes forming part of the financial statements provide additional information required by statute, accounting standards or other regulations to assist in a more detailed understanding of the primary financial statements.
The basis of preparation section see note 1 provides details of accounting policies that apply to transactions and balances in general.
Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Primary statements Primary statements 85 Consolidated income statement 114 Company balance sheet 86 Consolidated statement of compr ehensive income 115 Company statement of changes in equity and expense 87 Consolidated balance sheet Notes to the Company financial statements 88 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 116 C. 25.
Accounting policies 89 Consolidated statement of cash flow 118 C. 26.
Property, plant and equipment 118 C. 27.
Intangible assets Notes forming part of the financial statements 119 C. 28.
Investments in associates and joint ventures 95 2.
Financial income and expenses 120 C. 32.
Property, plant and equipment 122 C. 37.
Investments in associates and joint ventures 122 C. 39.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities 125 C. 40.
Associated undertakings and joint ventures 103 13.
Alternative performance measures 84 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018
