98 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Rentokil Initial plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of Rentokil Initial plc theCompany for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise Materiality: 11m 2017: 10m 4.8% 2017: 4.0% the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Group financial ofGroup normalised profit before tax Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of statements as a whole Changes in Equity, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Company Balance Sheet and Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and Coverage 85% 2017: 87% of Group loss profit the related notes, including the accounting policies in the General beforetax Accounting Policies.
In our opinion: Key audit matters vs. 2017 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 Recurring risks Provisions for tax risks and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Impairment assessment and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as testing of cash-generating adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : units that include goodwill and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly acquired intangible assets prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Recognition and measurement Act 2006: and of UK deferred tax assets on the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with unused tax losses therequirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Parent Company Recoverability of investments specific risk in subsidiary undertakings and Basis for opinion inter-company receivables We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained of material misstatement is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion isconsistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders in August include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement 2009.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the ten whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together services prohibited by that standard were provided.
withour key audit procedures to address those matters and, as requiredfor public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and wedo not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Provisions for tax risks Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: 59.7m 2017: 59.9m The Group holds a number of provisions for tax our tax expertise: use of our own tax specialists risks which arise in the normal course of business.
to assess the Groups tax positions, its Read more: The largest provision relates to a financing correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, Audit Committee Report, structure which has been challenged by the tax and to analyse and challenge the assumptions on pages 71 to 76 authorities.
The Group operates in a number of used to determine tax provisions based on our Accounting policy tax jurisdictions causing complexities in transfer knowledge and experiences of the application on pages 131 and 132 pricing and other international tax legislation ofthe international and local legislation by the Financial disclosures issues.
In addition, tax matters usually take a relevant authorities and courts: and on pages 131 and 132 significant length of time to be agreed with the tax assessing transparency: assessing the adequacy authorities and, as such, the recognition of these of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax liabilities tax provisions requires judgements and estimates and uncertain tax positions.
to be made in respect of the likely outcomes of Our results thetax authority investigations.
We found the level of tax provisioning to be acceptable The effect of these matters is that, as part of our 2017 result: acceptable.
risk assessment, we determined that provisions for tax risks have a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 99 Independent Auditors Report The risk Our response Impairment assessment and Forecast based valuation: Our procedures included: testing of cash-generating The Group has significant carrying amounts review of impairment models: evaluating the units that include goodwill of goodwill which are spread across a range principles and integrity of the Groups discounted 1,156.8m 2017: 972.2m of cash-generating units CGUs in different cash flow models and assumptions used, in countries.
This is related to numerous past and particular those relating to forecast revenue Read more: recent acquisitions, spread across the Groups growthand profit margins: Audit Committee Report, geography.
The acquisitions are largely bolt-on historical comparisons: evaluating historical on pages 71 to 76 in nature and the majority of the acquired forecasting accuracy of key inputs including Accounting policy business and goodwill are integrated into the revenue growth and profit margins: on pages 134 and 135 existing CGUs.
benchmarking assumptions: comparing the Financial disclosures Groups assumptions to externally derived data on pages 134 and 135 A value in use model is used for impairment testing in relation to key inputs such as long-term growth for each CGU.
The estimation of the value in use ratesand discount rate assumptions: of the cash-generating units requires significant sensitivity analysis: performing sensitivity analysis judgement due to the inherent uncertainty over the key assumptions noted above to identify involved with forecasting and discounting future which assumptions have the most significant cash flows particularly in relation to discount effect on the headroom available: rates, long-term growth rates, and forecast cash test of details: identifying specific balances flows.
Changes to the assumptions applied to the with possible indicators of impairment based on model, for example a change in the discount rate historical forecast accuracy, sensitivity in headroom or to forecast cash flows, have the potential to in individual CGUs to changes in key assumptions significantly affect theimpairment testing result.
and market conditions where the businesses operate and specifically challenge the Groups The effect of these matters is that, as part of our valuations for these items: and risk assessment, we determined that the value in assessing transparency: considering whether the use of cash generating units has a high degree of Groups disclosures of the effect on the impairment estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of assessment of changes in key assumptions reflected reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
for the financial statements as a whole.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units which contain goodwill to be acceptable 2017 result: acceptable.
The risk Our response Recognition and Forecast based valuation: Our procedures included: measurement of UK The Group has significant recognised deferred tax assessing forecasts: we evaluated the judgement deferred tax assets assets and unrecognised deferred tax assets in applied by the Directors in determining the onunused tax losses respect of unused tax losses within the UK of likelihood of the utilisation of tax losses and the 6.7m 2017: 12.3m 6.7m and 151.8m, respectively 2017: 12.3m and appropriateness of the assumptions underlying 136.0m, respectively.
There is inherent uncertainty the forecasts used in estimating future UK taxable Read more: involved in forecasting future taxable profits, which profits: Audit Committee Report, determines the extent to which deferred tax assets our tax expertise: use of our own tax specialists to on pages 71 to 76 are or are not recognised, and estimating the assist us in assessing the recoverability of the tax Accounting policy quantum of relevant future UK taxable profits arising losses against the forecast future taxable profits, on pages 131 and 132 against which unused tax losses can be utilised.
taking into account the UKs tax position, the timing Financial disclosures of forecast taxable profits, and our knowledge on pages 131 and 132 and experience of the application of relevant tax legislation: and assessing transparency: assessing the appropriateness of Groups disclosures regarding the recognition and measurement of deferred taxassets.
Our results As a result of our work we found the level of deferredtax assets recognised to be acceptable 2017result: acceptable.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 100 Independent Auditors Report The risk Our response Parent Company financial Low risk, high value: Our procedures included: statements: The carrying amount of the Companys test of details: comparing a sample of the Recoverability of investments investments in subsidiaries and inter-company investment carrying values and inter-company in subsidiary undertakings receivables represents 98% of the Companys receivables to net assets of the relevant and inter-company total assets.
subsidiary to identify whether the net assets of receivables.
Investments the subsidiaries, being an approximation of their We do not consider the recoverability of these 277.6m 2017: 274.2m.
minimum recoverable amount, were in excess investments and inter-company receivables Inter-company receivables of the carrying amount.
to beat a high risk of significant misstatement, 2,509.8m 2017: 2,792.3m.
or tobe subject to a high level of judgement.
Our results However, due to their materiality in the context We found the carrying value of investments and of the Company financial statements as a whole, therecoverability of intercompany receivables to this is considered to be the area which had the beacceptable 2017 result: acceptable.
greatest effect on our overall audit strategy andallocation of resources in planning and completing our Company audit.
The remaining reporting units not in scope for Group audit purposes 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the 24% of total Group revenue, 15% of Group loss profit before tax and scope of our audit 16% oftotal Group assets were individually insignificant reporting units, Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set noneof which individually represented more than 3% of any of total at11m 2017: 10m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group revenue, Group loss profit before tax or total Group assets.
We Group loss before tax, normalised to exclude this years pension performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine settlement as disclosed in Note A10, of 227.5m 2017: Group profit our assessment that there were no significant risks of material before tax, normalised to exclude net profit on disposal, of 264.6m misstatement within these remaining reporting units.
Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 8.2m 2017: 7.5m, The Group team instructed reporting unit auditors as to the significant determined with reference to component materiality set by the Group areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the audit team.
This is lower than the materiality we would otherwise information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the reporting have determined by reference to total assets, and represents 0.3% unit materialities, which ranged from 0.1m to 5.5m for all the operating 2017: 0.2% of total assets.
In addition to this range, 8.0m was used for the head office cost centre reporting unit 2017: 2.0m and 8.2m We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or wasused for the Parent Company 2017: 7.5m.
The range of materialities uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.3m 2017: 0.3m, was set having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across inaddition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting the reporting units.
The work on 66 of the 96 reporting units 2017: 57 of onqualitative grounds.
the 98 reporting units was performed by reporting unit auditors and the The audit work was performed by 16 2017: 18 audit teams in 15 different rest, including the audit of the Parent Company, was performed by the countries covering 96 2017: 98 reporting units.
2017: 66 reporting units to full scope audits for Group purposes and Video and telephone conference meetings were held with these reporting 36 2017: 32 reporting units to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
unit auditors and all others that were not physically visited.
The Group The reporting units within the scope of our work accounted for the engagement partner also did physical visits to the US and UK during the percentages illustrated below.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail.
The Group audit team performed audit file reviews of all reporting unit auditors and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the reporting unit auditors.
Group revenue Group loss profit before tax Group total assets 76% 85% 84% 2017: 75% 2017: 87% 2017: 88% F ull scope for Group 67% F ull scope for Group 70% F ull scope for Group 69% audit purposes 2018 audit purposes 2018 audit purposes 2018 Specified risk-focused 9% Specified risk-focused 15% Specified risk-focused 15% audit procedures 2018 audit procedures 2018 audit procedures 2018 Residual reporting units 24% Residual reporting units 15% Residual reporting units 16% Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 101 Independent Auditors Report Strategic Report and Directors Report 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Based solely on our work on the other information: The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report the Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded and the Directors Report: that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material year is consistent with the financial statements: and uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with tocontinue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of the Companies Act 2006. approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
Directors Remuneration Report Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Directorsconclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: isnot a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue the Directors confirmation within the Directors viability statement in operation.
on page 47 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the itsbusiness model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model and the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Companys how they are being managed and mitigated: and financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going the Directors explanation in the Directors viability statement of concern period.
The risks that we considered most likely to adversely how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what affect the Groups and Companys available financial resources over period they have done so and why they considered that period to be thisperiod were: appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable potential slowdown in the economies of some regions due to expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and changesin the economic cycle: meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, integration risk in relation to acquisitions to the existing business: and including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary the increased risk of rising interest rates impacting future debt cost.
As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt on the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors viability Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
considered sensitivities over the level of available financial resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking account of reasonably Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we risks individually and collectively and evaluated the achievability of the cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were should the risks materialise.
We also considered less predictable but reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to realistic second order impacts, such as the impact of Brexit and the report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and erosion of customer or supplier confidence, which could result in a Companys longer-term viability.
rapidreduction of available financial resources.
Corporate governance disclosures Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge thedirectors statement in the General accounting policies note to we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and doubt over the Groups and Companys use of that basis for a period provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or statements: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 169 Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated ismaterially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
byus to the Audit Committee.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement going concern as a key audit matter.
does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 provisions of theUK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report on the other information inthe Annual Report We have nothing to report in these respects.
The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 102 Independent Auditors Report Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation whichwe are required to report by exception including related companies legislation recognising the nature of Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, the Groups activities, distributable profits legislation, and taxation inour opinion: legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received statement items.
from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material accounting records and returns: or effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of made: or the Groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as we have not received all the information and explanations we require those most likely to have such an effect: anti-bribery and corruption, for our audit.
employment law, environmental law and certain aspects of companylegislation recognising the nature of the Groups activities.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the 7.
Respective responsibilities Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and Directors responsibilities legalcorrespondence, if any.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 169, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability Forexample, the further removed non-compliance with laws and to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting inthe financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional Auditors responsibilities omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Weare not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, beexpected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in we owe our responsibilities accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of Companys members those matters we are required to state to them users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for FRCswebsite at frc.
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing Michael Maloney Senior Statutory Auditor standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor correspondence, and discussed with the Directors and other Chartered Accountants management the policies and procedures regarding compliance 15 Canada Square, with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and London, E14 5GL regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication 27 February 2019 from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
