Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc Opinion In our opinion: The Restaurant Group plcs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 December and of the groups profit for the 52 week period then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of The Restaurant Group plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet Balance sheet Consolidated income statement Statement of changes in equity Related notes 1 to 28 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity including a summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated cash flow statement Related notes 1 to 28 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 59 Independent auditors report continued Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 57 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 58 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 73 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 14 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Recognition and valuation of acquired assets and liabilities assumed Impairment of property, plant and equipment Onerous lease provisions Management override in the recognition of revenue Supplier rebates Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the groups restaurant and pub operations, accounted for in its London and Chester offices, respectively: and specific procedures on the Wagamama financial position at 30 December 2018.
These three operations were considered as components for our audit.
Together our full and specific scope procedures covered 96% of profit before tax and exceptional items, 98% of revenue and 100% of total assets of the group.
Audit transition We developed a detailed audit transition plan, designed to deliver an effective audit transition from the groups predecessor audit firm, Deloitte LLP.
Our audit planning and transition commenced on 9 October 2018 following the conclusion of our independence and client acceptance procedures.
Our transition activities included meeting with members of the groups management in key locations, attending Audit Committee meetings, and reviewing Deloittes 2017 audit work papers.
We held formal audit planning meetings internally and with management to develop our first year audit approach.
Overall group materiality is 2.5m which represents 5% of profit before taxation and Materiality exceptional items.
60 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Recognition and valuation of acquired We gained an understanding of the process The provisional purchase price assets and liabilities assumed and controls management has in place over allocation is appropriately 2018: 412.4m of assets acquired and the groups acquisition accounting.
recognised and the disclosure 378.9m of liabilities assumed: 2017: nil in the financial statements is We obtained the share purchase agreement appropriate.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 34 : SPA and consideration documents to Accounting policies page 83 : and Note 28 of the validate the amounts paid.
We read the SPA and other relevant During the period the group acquired the documents to identify if there was any Wagamama group for a total consideration of contingent consideration, earn out or other 349.0m.
The acquisition is accounted for as a specific clauses which could have an business combination in relation to which there accounting impact.
are a number of significant and complex We agreed the assets acquired and liabilities judgments involved in the determination of the assumed to the financial information of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities Wagamama group at the acquisition date.
We obtained the groups external experts In conjunction with external specialists, reports and, in conjunction with our business management performed a purchase price valuation specialists, understood the valuation allocation exercise.
The most significant techniques for each of the assets being elements of the valuation exercise assessed the valued and considered whether these were fair value of the leasehold and freehold consistent with recognised practice.
restaurant portfolio 93.0m, the Wagamama We assessed, in conjunction with EY brand 236.0m, the franchise agreements valuation specialists, the valuation of the 21.9m and favourable operating leases tangible and intangible assets acquired, 1.1m.
The remaining amount has been including the key assumptions applied.
Consideration was also given by management to the assigned For forecasting information with a higher level useful life of the assets acquired, having taken of estimation uncertainty we agreed these advice from their external specialists.
to appropriate support, challenging whether there is evidence to the contrary.
Given the complexity and the level of judgement involved in this exercise there is a risk over the We checked the arithmetical accuracy of recognition and valuation of the acquired assets managements calculation of the tangible and liabilities assumed.
We evaluated the competence and independence of the specialists used by the group and EY specialists by reference to their qualifications and experience.
We assessed whether appropriate disclosure had been included in the group financial statements.
Scope of our procedures We performed full scope audit procedures over all the groups acquisitions made during the period.
The work was performed by the group audit team.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 61 Independent auditors report continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Impairment of property, plant and We gained an understanding of the process The impairment charge for the equipment excluding Wagamama and controls management has in place over year is reasonably stated and 2018: 341.6m net book value and 14.0m the impairment process, including identifying we confirmed the accounting impairment charge: 2017 restated: sites with impairment indicators and that for the prior period adjustment 327.3m and 20.7m, respectively these indicators had been appropriately relating to central cost identified.
The Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 34 : impairment and related prior Accounting policies page 83 : and Note 12 of the We verified the clerical accuracy of period adjustment disclosures Consolidated Financial Statements page 93. managements impairment model.
At 30 December 2018 TRG, excluding We assessed managements determination Wagamama, operated 439 restaurants and 81 of which sites constitute a CGU by pubs, which comprise the majority of the understanding how the underlying cash flows Groups property, plant and equipment PPE are generated and understanding the balance.
These sites had a book value at interdependency of the sites.
30 December 2018 of 341.6m 2017 restated: We met with management, including the 327.3m.
groups property director and finance team, For the year ended 30 December 2018 to discuss historic and future trading management assessed for impairment performance, their impairment approach, the indicators across all the groups cash-generating judgements and estimates made in assessing units CGUs.
Management considered a range for impairment.
of impairment indicators, including a CGUs We assessed and challenged management performance against budget and negative on forecast site performance in the context of EBITDA.
the groups historic results, as well as wider CGUs are considered by management to be market trends and expectations.
individual restaurant sites, or multiple sites that We worked with our business valuation are in close proximity, such as at airports where specialists, assessing the growth rate and their trading is highly interdependent.
discount rate applied in managements A detailed impairment test was performed impairment model, checking against relevant where indicators existed.
benchmarks and the impact of sensitising these rates.
As a result of managements re-assessment of the impairment model, central service costs We verified that any impairment charges or were incorporated into the value-in-use model.
reversals were reflected and appropriately This change necessitated a prior year accounted for in the financial statements.
We adjustment as described in note 1. also verified there is appropriate disclosure.
Significant management judgement and We verified that the prior period adjustment estimation uncertainty is involved in this area, as discussed in Note 1 to the financial where the primary inputs are: statements was appropriately calculated and recorded in the financial statements.
Determining if indicators exist: We assessed whether the exceptional item Identifying which sites represent CGUs: treatment of the impairment charge is in Generating cash flow forecasts: accordance with the TRG policy and appropriate guidance and practice.
Selecting an appropriate discount rate Scope of our procedures The impairment charge is treated as exceptional We performed full scope audit procedures on in the Income Statement.
the impairment exercise carried out on all of the Given the quantum of the PPE balance, along groups restaurant and pub portfolio, with the with the market challenges faced by the groups exception of the Wagamama element, which leisure brands, we considered this to be a was assessed separately above as part our key significant risk.
62 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Onerous lease provisions excluding We gained an understanding of the process The onerous lease charge for Wagamama 2018: 40.7m closing and controls management has over the the year and provision at year provision and 10.0m net charge: 2017 identification of sites with onerous leases, end is reasonably stated and restated: 41.8m and 4.2m, respectively including for completeness an evaluation the related disclosures are of loss making sites where no provision is appropriate.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 34 : in place.
Accounting policies page 82 : and Note 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 96.
We verified the key inputs of the calculation such as contractual rent, void costs and any The group, excluding Wagamama, has a incentives, for a sample of tail, distressed and number of onerous contracts at leasehold sites pipeline sites.
where the cost of exiting the lease is greater than the anticipated income from the site over We challenged managements assumptions the minimum remaining lease term.
This is and estimates used in the supporting driven typically by sites that are underperforming provision calculation by reference to due to factors such as location or changing appropriate documentation and third party consumer trends.
Management recognised onerous lease We assessed the appropriateness of the provisions at 30 December 2018 of 40.7 million.
discount rate applied against relevant market This followed an exercise to assess existing data, with input from our business valuation sites not already provided for, as well as specialists, as appropriate.
reassessing the existing provisions for sites that We performed a sensitivity analysis on key are being exited tail sites, sites underperforming inputs to test for the impact on the provision.
distressed sites and sites not yet open For changes in onerous lease provisions, pipeline sites.
whether as a result of an exit, improved Significant management judgements and performance or other reasons, we estimates are involved in this exercise, with understood and challenged managements the primary inputs being cash flow forecasts, rationale, including reference to supporting discount rate, void periods and lease exit documentation.
We assessed whether the exceptional item Given these complexities and the quantum of treatment of the net onerous lease charge the balance, along with the continuing under is in accordance with the TRG policy and performance of some of the groups brands, appropriate guidance and practice.
we considered this area to be a significant risk.
The net onerous lease charge is treated as Scope of our procedures exceptional in the Income Statement.
We performed full scope audit procedures on the onerous lease provisions across all of the groups leased restaurant and pub portfolio, with the exception of the Wagamama element, which was assessed separately as part our key audit matter Recognition and valuation of acquired assets and liabilities assumed.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 63 Independent auditors report continued Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Management override in the recognition We gained an understanding of the process We confirmed that revenue of revenue 2018: 686.0m: 2017: 679.3m and controls, including IT elements that correlated to cash collected.
management has in place around the We did not identify any Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 34 : recording of revenue, including the recording instances of management Accounting policies page 78 : and Note 3 of the of manual journal adjustments.
override in relation to revenue.
We applied correlation data analysis over the There is a presumption within auditing groups revenue journal population to identify standards that revenue recognition is a how much of the groups revenue is significant risk and a fraud risk.
TRGs revenue converted to cash and to isolate nonis typically comprised of a large number of low standard revenue transactions for further value and non-complex transactions, with no analysis, focusing our testing on higher risk judgement applied over the amount recorded.
Thus, we consider the risk relating to revenue We identified any topside journals to revenue to be around management override of controls and obtained corroborative evidence to and topside journals to revenue across the support them.
restaurant and pub portfolio, resulting in revenue overstated or sales not recorded.
We performed cut-off testing procedures including review of post period end cash receipts and journals and an analytical review of significant variances to assess for completeness.
Scope of our procedures We performed full scope audit procedures over all of the groups revenue.
Supplier rebates 2018 receivable: 15.6m: We gained an understanding of Supplier rebate amounts are 2017: 14.5m appropriately recognised in the managements processes and controls income statement and balance over the recognition of rebates.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 34 : sheet.
Accounting policies page 76 : and Note 14 of the For a sample of supplier arrangements, Consolidated Financial Statements page 95. we agreed the key terms through seeking The group earns supplier income primarily direct or indirect external confirmations through volume discounts.
These are received and recalculating amounts recorded.
based typically on the number of units We challenged a sample of the year end purchased from suppliers.
For the year ended rebate estimates by considering the outturn 30 December 2018, the rebates receivable was of prior period rebate estimates.
Supplier rebates are recorded as credits to cost For a sample of rebates we verified they of sales, being a reversal of the original line item had been appropriately recorded in the where they were recorded, and also as a trade correct period through reference to supplier receivable as the majority of these come direct statements and post year end settlements.
We assessed the recoverability of unsettled Whilst there is little management judgement rebates with reference to the terms of the required in recognising this income, given the rebate agreement and the settlement history.
quantum we consider there to be a risk over this figure.
This is focused on the system controls Scope of our procedures over the inputs, any changes to volume discount We performed full scope audit procedures over arrangements and the recognition of rebates all of the groups supplier rebates.
The work was in the appropriate period.
performed by the group audit team.
64 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each component.
The groups operations are based solely in the United Kingdom with separate finance functions for each of the groups three components.
All audit procedures are completed by the group audit team at these locations.
The audit team includes tax, IT, property valuation and business valuation specialists.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of the groups restaurant and pub operations, accounted for in its London and Chester offices, respectively: and specific procedures on the Wagamama financial position at 30 December 2018.
We obtained an understanding of the entity-level controls of the group which assisted us in identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement due to fraud or error, as well as assisting us in determining the most appropriate audit strategy.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the group to be 2.5 million, which is 5% of profit before taxation and exceptional items.
We believe that the profit before taxation and exceptional items is considered to be the primary area of focus of the groups stakeholders.
We exclude the impact of one-off items which do not reflect the underlying trading performance of the Group.
We determined materiality for the parent company to be 8.9 million, which is 2% of net assets.
Profit before tax 13.9m Consolidated income statement Starting basis E xceptional items before tax 39.2m Note 6 Adjustments Profit before taxation and exceptional items 53.1m materiality basis Materiality of 2.6m 5% of materaility basis Materiality The above materiality is our reassessment based on the final results for the year.
Our audit was conducted at a lower preliminary materiality of 2.5m.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely 1.2 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage reflecting the incidence of prior year adjustments and that this is a first year audit.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 65 Independent auditors report continued Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
The range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.5 million to 0.9 million, using a basis appropriate to each component.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.1 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 1 to 58 and 120 to 124, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 58 the statement by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on page 32 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 58 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
66 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 58, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined that the most significant are the reporting framework IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and those laws and regulations as disclosed within risk and uncertainties of the groups business on pages 56 to 57 including The Pubs Code etc.
Regulations 2016, Health & Safety Regulations, the General Data Protection Regulation, and Licensing Regulations.
We understood how The Restaurant Group plc is complying with those frameworks by making inquiries of management, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures including the group company secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through the attendance at meetings held by the audit committee, which receives updates on such matters from divisional and functional management.
As well as enquiry and attendance at meetings, our procedures involved a review of the reporting to the committees and a review of board meetings and other committee minutes to identify any non-compliance with laws and regulations.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018 67 Independent auditors report continued We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management to understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their propensity to influence management to manage earnings and revenue by overriding internal controls.
We considered the controls that the group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud, and how senior management monitors those controls.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions, taking into account our understanding of the group: enquiries of management at all components: and focussed testing as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 9 October 2018 to audit the financial statements for the 52 week period ending 30 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 5 months since our appointment on 9 October 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain independent of the group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Bob Forsyth Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 15 March 2019 Notes 1 T he maintenance and integrity of The Restaurant Group plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
68 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2018
