Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance | Independent auditors report to the members of Rightmove plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of Rightmove plc Materiality: 8.5m 2017:7.5m the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 Group financial which comprise the Consolidated statement of 4.3% 2017: 4.2% statements as a whole of profit before tax comprehensive income, Consolidated statement of financial position, Company statement of financial position, Coverage 99.8% 2017:100% of Consolidated statement of cash flows, Company statement Group profit before tax of cash flows, Consolidated statement of changes in Key audit matters vs 2017 shareholders equity, Company statement of changes in shareholders equity, and the related notes, including the Recurring risks Agency, New Homes accounting policies in note 1. and Overseas revenue recognition In our opinion: Recoverability of the financial statements have been prepared in accordance parent Companys with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as investment in regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the subsidiaries IASRegulation.
the Group financial statements have been properly 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of prepared in accordance with International Financial material misstatement Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional IFRSs as adopted by the EU : judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the the parent Company financial statements have been financial statements and include the most significant properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the the Companies Act 2006: and greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation the financial statements have been prepared in accordance of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the matters unchanged from 2017, in decreasing order of audit IASRegulation.
significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together Basis for opinion with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, We conducted our audit in accordance with International as required for public interest entities, our results from those Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
These matters were addressed, and our results Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, consistent with our report to the audit committee.
and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We were first appointed as auditor by the directors to the Groups previous holding company, prior to it becoming a public interest entity, for the financial period ended 31December 2000.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 13 financial years ended 31December 2018 as a public-interest entity and 19 years in total.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 85 Governance | Independent auditors report to the members of Rightmove plc continued The risk: Our response: Revenue Processing error: Our audit procedures included: recognition The key revenue streams, being Control operation: Testing the design, implementation and operating 267.8 million: Agency, New Homes and Others, effectiveness of the Groups controls over the review of monthly 2017: 243.3m consist of subscription fees and revenue recognised compared to the Groups expectation as well as customer spend on additional controls over the review of analysis of outliers in billing: advertising products in respect of Data comparison: Reconciling revenue transactions, through postings Refer to page 46 properties listed on Rightmove to trade receivables, to cash receipts, on a monthly basis by customer.
There is a variety of We tested a sample of unreconciled revenue entries back to supporting Report, pages 98 packages and products available and evidence to assess whether revenue was recognised appropriately: to 100 accounting customers are able to tailor the policy and pages Tests of details: For a sample of the highest revenue generating combination of products they receive.
112 to 113 customers we inspected contracts signed in the year, to assess whether The resulting large volume of nonfinancial revenue has been recognised in accordance with the specific contract homogenous transactions creates a disclosures.
terms and conditions: we also reviewed the standard packages against risk of processing error, in particular the revenue recognition policy:.
revenue being recognised at the Tests of details: We assessed the appropriateness of contract liabilities incorrect amount or not in the correct at the period end with reference to advance consideration where period.
In addition revenue is the most amounts are received in advance but revenue recognition deferred until material figure in the financial the services are provided: statements and is considered to be a main driver of results, and as such had Test of details: Inspecting a sample of credit notes raised post year end the greatest effect on our allocation of to determine whether they related to revenue recognised in the year: resources in planning and completing Tests of details: We obtained all journals posted in respect of revenue the audit.
and, using computer assisted audit techniques, analysed these to identify any entries which were unexpected based upon the specific characteristic of the journal, considering in particular whether the opposite side of the journal entry was as expected, based on our business understanding.
We tested a sample of all expected entries back to supporting evidence to assess whether revenue was .
Our results We found no exceptions performing the procedures described above.
Recoverability of Low risk, high value: Our audit procedures included: parent The carrying amount of the parent Comparing valuations: comparing the carrying amount of the Companys Companys investments in the investment to the market capitalisation of the Group, as Rightmove investment in subsidiary company Rightmove Group Group Limited contains all of the Groups trading operations.
subsidiaries Limited represents 99% Our findings: 551.5 million: 2017: 99% of the Companys total We found no indicators of impairment.
Its recoverability is not at a high risk of significant misstatement Refer to page 46 or subject to significant judgement.
Audit Committee However, due to its materiality in the Report, page 106 context of the parent Company accounting policy financial statements, this is and pages 120 to considered to be the area that had the 121 financial greatest effect on our overall parent disclosures.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview Group revenue Group profit before tax of the scope of our audit 0.2 Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 8.5m 2017: 7.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents 100% 99.8% 4.3% 2017: 4.2%.
2017: 100% 2017: 100% Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a 100 whole was set at 6.8m 2017: 6.0m, determined with 100 99.8 reference to a benchmark of Company net assets, of which it represents 1.3% 2017: 1.1%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected Group total assets or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.43m, 0.4 in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
0.2 Of the Groups four 2017: three reporting components, 99.6% which includes the parent Company, we subjected two Full scope for Group audit 2017: 99.8% 2017: two to full scope audits for Group purposes.
purposes 2018 The components within the scope of our work accounted Full scope for Group audit 99.8 purposes 2017 for 100% of total Group revenue, 99.8% of Group profit 99.6 Residual components before tax and 99.6% of total Group assets.
The remaining 0.4% of total Group assets is represented by two reporting components none of which individually 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern represented more than 0.4% of any of total Group revenue, The directors have prepared the financial statements on the Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
For the residual going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as level to re-examine our assessment that there were no they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups significant risks of material misstatement within these.
financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also The work on the two reporting components 2017: two concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could components was performed by the Group team, which have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a includes the audit of the parent Company, with materiality going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of for the components set at 6.8m 2017: 6.0m.
the financial statements the going concern period.
Profit before tax Group materiality Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of 198.3m 8.5m 2017: 7.5m the directors conclusions and, had there been a material 2017: 178.2m uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to 8.5m that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all Whole financial statements materiality 2017: 7.5m future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the 6.8m Materiality at two components absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this 6.8m 2017: 6.0m auditors report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue in operation.
In our evaluation of the directors conclusions, we considered the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model, including the impact of Brexit, and analysed Profit before tax 0.43m how those risks might affect the Groups and Companys Group materiality Misstatements reported to the financial resources or ability to continue operations over Audit Committee 2017: 0.37m the going concern period.
We evaluated those risks and concluded that they were not significant enough to require us to perform additional audit procedures.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 87 Governance | Independent auditors report to the members of Rightmove plc continued 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern continued the Principal risks and uncertainties disclosures describing Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: these risks and explaining how they are being managed and we have anything material to add or draw attention to in mitigated: and relation to the directors statement in Note 1 to the the directors explanation in the Viability statement of how financial statements on the use of the going concern basis they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast period they have done so and why they considered that significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be date of approval of the financial statements: or able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on fall due over the period of their assessment, including any page 97 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context The directors are responsible for the other information of only the knowledge acquired during our financial presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does conditions and as subsequent events may result in not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial Corporate governance disclosures statements audit work, the information therein is materially We are required to report to you if: misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or we have identified material inconsistencies between the our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not knowledge we acquired during our financial statements identified material misstatements in the other information.
audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole Strategic report and directors report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Based solely on our work on the other information: information necessary for shareholders to assess the we have not identified material misstatements in the Groups position and performance, business model and strategic report and the directors report: strategy: or in our opinion the information given in those reports for the the section of the annual report describing the work of the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters and communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate governance report does not properly disclose a departure from the Directors remuneration report eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial which we are required to report by exception statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report attention to in relation to: to you if, in our opinion: the directors confirmation within the Viability statement on adequate accounting records have not been kept by the page 28 that they have carried out a robust assessment of parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have the principal risks facing the Group, including those that not been received from branches not visited by us: or would threaten its business model, future performance, the parent Company financial statements and the part of solvency and liquidity: the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or 88 rightmove.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation and law are not made: or we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and we have not received all the information and explanations regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial we require for our audit.
Whilst the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations, we did not identify any others where the 7.
Respective responsibilities consequences of non-compliance alone could have a Directors responsibilities material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 57, statements.
the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an financial statements including being satisfied that they give a unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is material misstatements in the financial statements, even necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements though we have properly planned and performed our audit in that are free from material misstatement, whether due to accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the fraud or error: assessing the Groups and the parent further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend limited procedures required by auditing standards would to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remains a operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may Auditors responsibilities involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We whether the financial statements as a whole are free from are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in and regulations.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted our responsibilities in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably so that we might state to the Companys members those be expected to influence the economic decisions of users matters we are required to state to them in an auditors taken on the basis of the financial statements.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility FRCs website at www.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for Irregularities ability to detect the opinions we have formed.
We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and discussed with the directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and Anna Jones Senior Statutory Auditor regulations.
We communicated identified laws and for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
Chartered Accountants Altius House The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the One North Fourth Street financial statements varies considerably.
Milton Keynes The Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly MK9 1NE affect the financial statements including financial reporting 1 March 2019 legislation including related companies legislation, Rightmove plc annual report 2018 89
