Financial statements Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and of  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited For the purpose of this report, the terms we and our denote complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the  LLP in relation to UK legal, professional and  2001. regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members ofRioTinto plc and  in relation to Australian What we have audited legal, professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting The Group financial statements as defined below and the Rio Tinto plc obligationsto the members of Rio Tinto Limited.
For the purposes of the financial statements as defined below are referred to in this report as the table on pages 257 to 258 that sets out the key audit matters and how our financial statements.
The Group financial statements, note 46 Rio Tinto audit addressed the key audit matters, the terms we and our refer to Limited parent company disclosures and the Directors declaration on page  LLP and or  and or 253 are collectively referred to in this report as the financial report.
The Group financial statements, as defined below, consolidate the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and their  LLP has audited the financial statements for the respective subsidiaries the Group and include the Groups share of joint year ended 31 December 2018. arrangements and associates.
The Parent Companies are defined as Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
 has audited the Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards, the Remuneration report included intheDirectors The relevant legislation governing the Parent Companies is the United report and the financial report for the year ended 31December 2018.
Kingdom Companies Act 2006 Companies Act 2006 for Rio Tinto plc andthe Australian Corporations Act 2001 Corporations Act 2001 as The Group financial statements, included within the Annual report and amended by the ASIC order dated 14 December 2015 the ASIC Order Accounts the Annual report, comprise: the Group balance sheet as at forRio Tinto Limited.
31December 2018: the Group income statement and Group statement ofcomprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: the Group statement of changes in Report on the audit of the financial statements and equity for the year then ended: notes 145 and 47 to the Group financial thefinancialreport statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information: the outline of dual listed Opinion companies structure and basis of financial statements: and the Rio Tinto Opinion of  LLP on the financial financial information by business unit.
statements tothe members of Rio Tinto plc The Rio Tinto plc financial statements, included within the Annual report, In our opinion: comprise: the Rio Tinto plc Company balance sheet as at 31 December the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the 2018: the Rio Tinto plc Company statement of changes in equity for the year state of the Groups and of Rio Tinto plcs affairs as at 31 December 2018 then ended: and notes A-I to the Rio Tinto plc financial statements, which and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: include a description of the significant accounting policies and other the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in explanatory information.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: Basis for opinion the Rio Tinto plc financial statements have been properly prepared in We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Auditing UK ISAs UK, Australian Auditing Standards ASAs and Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the statements and financial report section of our report.
We believe that the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
 LLPs opinion is consistent with our reporting to Independence theAudit Committee.
 LLP remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit Separate opinion of  LLP in ofthe financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRC Ethical relation to financialstatements prepared in accordance Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have with IFRSs as issued bytheInternational Accounting fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these Standards Board IASB requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs provided to the Group or Rio Tinto plc.
Other than those disclosed in as issued by the IASB.
note39to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit servicesto the Group or Rio Tinto plc in the period from 1January 2018 In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared to31 December 2018. in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
 remained independent of the Group in accordance Opinion of  on the financial report with the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 to themembers of Rio Tinto Limited and the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Boards APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants In our opinion: APES 110 that are relevant to our audit of the financial report in The accompanying financial report, defined below, is in accordance with Australia.
We have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in theCorporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order, including: accordance with APES 110. giving a true and fair view of the Groups financial position as at 31December 2018 and of its financial performance for the year thenended: and Independent auditors report Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 255 Financial statements Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and of  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued Our audit approach The Groups principal activities are minerals and metals exploration, development, production and processing.
The Group operates through four product groups which are supported by the Growth & Innovation group and other centralised functions.
Together these comprise 48 business units containing multiple reporting units.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: US$350 million 2017: US$350 million.
Overall Rio Tinto plc materiality: US$325 million 2017: US$325 million Scope We identified the Pilbara business unit as a significant component which required an audit of its complete financial information due to its financial significance to the Group.
Aside from Pilbara, we obtained full scope reporting from a further 21 reporting units 2017: 21.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 20 reporting units 2017: 16, which comprised 11 2017: ten operating reporting units and nine 2017: six central reporting units, such as treasury entities.
Key audit matters We assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements and the financial report and determined the following key audit matters for 2018: assessment of indicators of impairment reversal of impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment: provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations: and provisions for uncertain tax positions, with a particular focus on transfer pricing of certain transactions with the Groups commercial centre in Singapore.
The scope of our audit and our key audit matters There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above.
We As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the areless likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance with laws and risks of material misstatement in the financial statements and the financial regulations that are not closely related to events and transactions reflected in report.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective the financial statements and financial report.
Also, the risk of not detecting a judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one involved making assumptions and considering future events that are resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for inherently uncertain.
example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Capabilities of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, Based on our understanding of the Group we identified that the principal risks includingfraud.
of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to breaches of safety and environmental regulations and unethical and prohibited business practices.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional We considered the extent to which non-compliance may have a material effect judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements on the financial statements and the financial report.
We also considered those and financial report of the current period and include the most significant laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements and assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud financial report such as the Companies Act 2006, the Corporations Act 2001, identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the UK Listing Rules and the Listing Rules of the Australian Stock Exchange.
theoverall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed manipulation of the financial statements and the financial report including in the context of our audit of the financial statements and the financial report the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were as a whole, and in forming our opinions thereon, and we do not provide a related to posting inappropriate journal entries to overstate revenue or separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks understate expenditure, and management bias in accounting estimates.
The identified by our audit.
We note that there are no key audit matters Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component  to Rio Tinto plc.
auditors referred to in the scoping section of our report below, so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors included: discussions with management, Group Internal Audit, Ethics & Integrity and the Groups legal advisers, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud: evaluation and testing of the operating effectiveness of managements controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities: assessment of matters reported through the Groups whistleblowing programme and the results of managements investigation of such matters: challenging assumptions and judgments made by management in its significant accounting estimates: identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account combinations.
com Financial statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Assessment of indicators of impairment reversal of impairment For material property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible The Group has finite-lived intangible assets totaling US$1,095 million and assets we undertook the following to test managements assessment property, plant and equipment of US$56,361 million as at 31 December forindicators of impairment impairment reversal: 2018.
Impairment charges to both of these asset categories have been satisfied ourselves as to the appropriateness of managements recognised in previous years.
identification of the Groups CGUs and the continued satisfactory operation of the Groups key controls over the impairment assessment The determination of whether an impairment or impairment reversal process: and triggerexists can be judgemental.
Management must determine the evaluated managements assessment of impairment indicators, as well recoverable amount for finite-lived intangible assets and property, plant as indicators of impairment reversal, including the conclusions reached.
and equipment when impairment indicators or indicators of impairment reversal are identified.
In addition, specifically for the Oyu Tolgoi CGU, we: tested managements determination of the recoverable amount of the The determination of recoverable amount, being the higher of value-in-use Oyu Tolgoi CGU, prepared using the FVLCD methodology, which included VIU and fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD, requires judgement the assessment of the reasonableness of key inputs into the valuation and estimation on the part of management in identifying and then such as the discount rate and future copper price.
For the discount rate, determining the recoverable amount for the relevant CGUs.
Recoverable this included our valuations experts independently calculating a amounts are based on managements view of key internal value driver discount rate and comparing it with managements own calculation: inputs and external market conditions such as future commodity prices, understood the impact of the latest life of mine plan assumptions and thetiming and approval of future capital and operating expenditure, and assessed the competence and objectivity of managements internal themost appropriate discount rate.
technical experts in preparing this plan: verified the integrity of formulae and mathematical accuracy of The CGU where we focussed our procedures was Oyu Tolgoi.
Management managements valuation model: observed a deterioration in some internal and external indicators of value considered the current project status and the length of time remaining for the Oyu Tolgoi CGU and therefore prepared an assessment of the tocomplete the underground mine and related uncertainties: and recoverable amount.
It concluded that no impairment loss had occurred.
satisfied ourselves that managements conclusion that no impairment loss had occurred is supportable and validated the appropriateness Refer to note 6 for managements conclusions and the Audit Committees ofthe related disclosures in note 6 to the financial statements.
Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues from ourwork.
Provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations We assessed managements process for the review of closure provisions, and The Group has provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental performed detailed testing for reporting units that recorded a movement in obligations of US$9,975 million as at 31 December 2018. their closure provision in the year, or a closure provision as at 31 December 2018, that was above the respective individual components materiality level.
The calculation of these provisions requires management to estimate the quantum and timing of future costs, particularly given the unique nature As part of our detailed testing of the cost estimates prepared by management, ofeach site, the long timescales involved and the potential associated we established the existence of legal and or constructive obligations with obligations.
These calculations also require management to determine respect to the closure provision and considered the intended method of anappropriate rate to discount future costs to their net present value.
restoration and rehabilitation and associated cost estimate.
There are limited restoration and rehabilitation activity and historical We also considered the competence and objectivity of managements experts, precedent against which to benchmark estimates of future costs.
whether internal or external to the Group, who produced the cost estimates and, where we considered it appropriate, engaged our own internal expert to Management reviews the close-down, restoration and environmental assess the work performed by managements experts.
obligations on an annual basis, using experts to provide support in its assessment where appropriate.
This review incorporates the effects of We checked the mathematical accuracy of managements calculations and anychanges in local regulations and managements anticipated approach assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate using our valuations experts.
As at 31 December 2018, the total provision held on the balance sheet has decreased from US$9,983 million to US$9,975 million.
Refer to notes 2 and 26, and the Audit Committees views set out on page 91.
Independent auditors report Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 257 Financial statements Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and of  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations In addition to the overall response to the risk described above, we continued performed additional procedures in respect of the largest increase in obligations during the year: read the latest available technical studies and assessed the appropriateness of the scope of work performed by management and thevarious third party experts: and considered whether the updates in provisions reflect changes to previousestimates or the correction of prior period errors.
For the reporting units in scope that did not have a movement in the year, oraclosure provision as at 31 December 2018, that was above the respective individual components materiality level we considered whether the provision relating to close-down, restoration and environmental obligations was consistent with our understanding of the obligations associated with the operation and the remediation plans.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in notes 2 and 26 to the financial statements.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions We assessed managements process for identifying uncertain tax The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is subject to positionsand the related accounting policy of providing for tax exposures.
periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during We engaged our tax specialists to understand the current status of tax the normal course of business, including transfer pricing, indirect taxes and assessments and investigations and to monitor developments in ongoing transaction related tax matters.
We read recent rulings and correspondence with local tax authorities, as well as external advice received by the Group where relevant, As at 31 December 2018, the Group has current and non-current taxes to satisfy ourselves that the tax provisions had been appropriately recorded payable of US$2,190 million.
Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, or adjusted to reflect the latest external developments.
the Group establishes provisions based on managements best estimate of the most likely outcome.
In addition to our overall response to the risk described above, we performedprocedures in respect of the Groups Singapore commercial In relation to specific uncertain tax positions, we focussed on matters relating centre as follows: to the transfer pricing of certain transactions between the Groups entities read the latest available correspondence between management and based in Australia and the Groups commercial centre in Singapore.
Over the therelevant tax authorities and expert reports to assess the continued past financial year, the Group has been in continued discussions with the appropriateness of the provision recognised by management: Australian Taxation Office on these matters.
checked the mathematical accuracy of managements provision calculations and agreed relevant input data to supporting records: and Refer to notes 2 and 9, and the Audit Committees views set out on page 91. engaged our experts in the field of transfer pricing to evaluate the basis on which the provision has been determined.
Based on the procedures performed, we determined the provision reflects managements current best estimate of the expected economic outflow.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in notes 2 and9 to the financial statements.
Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues arising from our work.
com Financial statements How we tailored the audit scope As the Group engagement team, we tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give opinions on the financial statements and the financial report as a whole, taking into account the geographical structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised into four product groups Aluminium, Copper & Diamonds, Energy & Minerals and Iron Ore, all of which are supported by the Growth & Innovation group and other centralised functions.
Each product group is made up of a number of operating businesses which represent separate business units.
Each business unit is comprised of individual reporting units which align to discrete operations.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
We determined the appropriate reporting units toperform work based on factors such as the size of the balances, the key audit matters as noted above and known accounting matters, and to  in our audit procedures.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at reporting units by us, as the Groupengagement team, or component auditors from either other PwC network firms or non-PwC firms operating under our instruction.
We identified the Pilbara reporting unit as a significant component as defined within ISAs UK and ASAs which, in our view, required an audit of its complete financial information, due to its financial significance to the Group.
Outside of the Pilbara reporting unit, we obtained full scope reporting from afurther 21 reporting units 2017: 21.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 20 reporting units 2017: 16, which comprised 11 2017: ten operating reporting units and nine 2017: six central reporting units, such as treasury entities, primarily to ensureappropriate audit coverage.
As we seek to vary our audit procedures each year to ensure an element of unpredictability, three different smaller reporting units 2017: two were included in our Group audit scope for 2018.
We also performed work centrally on IT general controls, journals, taxation and pensions.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinions on the Group financial statements and financial report as a whole.
We issued formal written instructions to all component auditors setting out the audit work to be performed by each of them and maintained regular communication with the component auditors throughout the audit cycle.
These interactions included attending certain component clearance meetings and holding regular conference calls, as well as reviewing and assessing any matters reported.
The Group engagement team also reviewed selected audit working papers for certain component teams.
In addition, senior members of the Group engagement team visited component teams across all four product groups in Australia, Canada, Chile, Mongolia, Singapore and the United States of America.
These visits included meetings with local management and with the component auditors, and typically operating site tours.
com 259 Financial statements Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and of  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements and the financial report as a whole.
Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the financial statements and the financial report as a whole as follows: Overall materiality Overall Group materiality US$350 million 2017: US$350 million.
Overall Rio Tinto plc materiality: US$325 million 2017: US$325 million.
How we determined it For overall Group materiality we used an average of underlying earnings before tax as defined in note 2 to the financial statements of the current and previous three years 2017: average underlying earnings before tax of the then current year andprevious three years.
For overall Rio Tinto plc materiality we used total assets as a basis for determining materiality.
Rationale for For overall Group materiality, we chose to use an underlying earnings measure as the benchmark because an underlying benchmark applied measure removes the impact of material items which do not recur from year to year or otherwise significantly affect the underlying trend of performance from continuing operations.
This is the metric against which the performance of the Group ismost commonly assessed by management and reported to members.
Our approach to determine materiality is based on a four year average of profit before tax adjusted for items excluded from underlying earnings.
The adoption of a multi-year average benchmark for materiality responds to longer-term trends in commodity markets and reduces volatility in the measure year-on-year.
Using our professional judgment, we determined materiality for this year at US$350 million, which equates to approximately 2.8% of the current years underlying earnings beforetax.
For overall Rio Tinto plc materiality we determined our materiality based on total assets, which is more applicable than a performance-related measure as the company is an investment holding company for the Group.
Using our professional judgment, we determined materiality for this year at US$325 million, which equates to approximately 0.7% of the current yearstotal assets.
Component For each reporting unit component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that was less than our overall Group materiality materiality.
The materiality allocated to each component was between US$15 million and US$320 million 2017: US$15 million and US$320 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above US$25 million 2017: US$25 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Reporting obligation In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: We are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in respect of the directors statement about whether theyconsidered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification ofany material uncertainties to the Groups and Rio Tinto plcs ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from thedate of the approval of the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to.
However, because not all future events orconditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Rio Tinto plcs ability to continue as a going concern.
Forexample, the terms on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, arenotclear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications to the Groups and Rio Tinto plcs trade, customers, suppliers and the widereconomy.
We are also required to report if the directors statement relating to going concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We have nothing to report.
In accordance with ASAs: We are required to conclude on the appropriateness of the directors' use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors report to the related disclosures in the financial report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
com Financial statements Reporting on other information  LLP The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we donot express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Ifwe identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and the Directors report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 have beenincluded.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report fortheyear ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Rio Tinto plc and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did notidentify any material misstatement in the Strategic report and Directors report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 65 of the Annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 65 of the Annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Rio Tinto plc and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 140, that they consider the Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Rio Tinto plcs position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Rio Tinto plc acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual report on page 91 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to Rio Tinto plcs compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Independent auditors report Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 261 Financial statements Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and of  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued Reporting on other information  In preparing the financial statements and financial report, the directors are The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other responsible for assessing the Groups and Parent Companies ability to information comprises the information included in the Annual report for continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable matters related to going theyear ended 31 December 2018, but does not include the financial report concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors and our auditors report thereon.
either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Companies or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information and accordingly we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements andfinancial report In connection with our audit of the financial report, our responsibility is to Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other financial statements and financial report as a whole are free from material information is materially inconsistent with the financial report or our misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of misstated.
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK and ASAs will always detect a material misstatement when If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a itexists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basisofthese financial statements or financial report.
Remuneration report Remuneration report Corporations Act 2001 opinion A further description of  LLPs responsibilities for Under the Corporations Act 2001 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited we are the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: required to express an opinion on the Remuneration report based on our www.
A further description of  auditconducted in accordance with ASAs.
responsibilities for the audit of the financial report is located on the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: http: www.
Opinion on the Remuneration report au auditors responsibilities ar1.
The descriptions on these websites We have audited the Remuneration report included on pages 106 to 136 form part of the auditors report for  LLP and oftheDirectors report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
In our opinion, the Remuneration report of Rio Tinto Limited complies with the Use of this report requirements of section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001 as amended bythe This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the ASIC Order.
members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of Rio Tinto plc Responsibilities and the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order in respect of The directors of Rio Tinto Limited are responsible for the preparation and Rio Tinto Limited and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these presentation of the Remuneration report in accordance with section 300A opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other ofthe Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order.
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Remuneration report, basedon our audit conducted in accordance with ASAs.
Responsibilities for the financial statements, the financial reportandtheaudit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements andfinancial report As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities set out on page 253, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and the financial report in accordance with the applicable financial reporting frameworks and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements and the financial report that are free from material misstatement, whether due tofraud or error.
com Financial statements Other required reporting  LLP Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in ouropinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by Rio Tinto plc, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Rio Tinto plc financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment  LLP and   LLP and  have acted as auditors of Rio Tinto since its formation under a dual listed company structurein 1995.
A predecessor firm of  LLP was appointed by the members of a predecessor company of Rio Tinto plc on 8 May 1958 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 May 1958 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 61 years, covering the years ended 31 May 1958 to 31 December 2018.
A predecessor firm of  was appointed by the members of a predecessor company of Rio Tinto Limited on 31 December 1959 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 1959 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 60 years, covering the years ended 31 December 1959 to 31 December 2018.
Paul Barkus Debbie Smith Senior Statutory Auditor Partner for and on behalf of for and on behalf of  LLP  Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom Brisbane, Australia 27 February 2019 27 February 2019 Independent auditors report Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
