252434 RIT R&A pp075-pp085 04 03 2019 16:20 Page 76 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion: RIT Capital Partners plcs the Group Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of RIT Capital Partners plc which comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Parent Company Balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year to 31 December 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2018 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year to 31 December 2018 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statement for the year to 31 December 2018 for the year to 31 December 2018 Consolidated and Parent Cash Flow Statement for the year to 31 December 2018 Related notes 1 to 34 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the EU and as regards to the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
76 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp075-pp085 04 03 2019 16:20 Page 77 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 15 to 17 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 18 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 18 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 18 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach The risk of incorrect valuation of direct private investments.
The risk of incorrect valuation of illiquid fund investments.
Key audit matters The risk of inaccurate recognition of investment income and gains losses on fair value investments.
The risk of incomplete or inaccurate related party disclosures.
The Group is principally managed from one location in London.
All core functions, including finance and operations, are located in London.
The Group comprises one consolidated subsidiary and eight subsidiaries held at fair value.
Monitoring and control over the operations of these subsidiaries, including those located overseas, Audit scope is centralised in London.
The London based Group audit team directly performed audit procedures on all items material to the Group and Parent Company financial statements.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 28.3 million which represents 1% of net assets.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 77 We obtained an understanding of JRCM Managements processes and controls for determining the fair valuation of direct private investments.
We evaluated the design and implementation of controls.
This included reviewing the valuation governance structure and protocols around their oversight of the valuation process.
We corroborated our understanding by reading minutes, board papers and attending Valuation Committee meetings.
We compared JRCM Managements valuation methodology against applicable reporting frameworks, including IFRS Fair Valuation Principles and the International Private Equity and Venture Capital IPEV Guidelines.
We sought explanations from JRCM Management where there were judgments applied in its application of the guidelines and assessed their appropriateness.
With the assistance of our valuations specialists, we formed an independent range for the key assumptions used in the valuation of a sample of direct private investments, with reference to relevant industry and market valuation considerations.
We derived our ranges of fair values using our assumptions and other qualitative risk factors.
We compared these ranges to JRCM Managements fair values, and discussed our results with both JRCM Management and the Audit and Risk Committee.
On a sample comprising 95.7% of the fair value of direct private investments, we corroborated key inputs into the valuation models, such as earnings to source data.
For this sample, we have: challenged the assumptions made by JRCM Management in the application of the valuation models: assessed the suitability of earnings multiples, including adjustments made to reflect the differences between the selected comparable companies and the investee company: challenged the appropriateness of discount rates applied in discounted cash flow valuation models: tested the mathematical accuracy of the valuation models: and compared the fair valuation to recently completed market transactions or recent offers where relevant.
We discussed with JRCM Management the rationale for any differences between the exit prices of investments realised during the year and the prior year fair value, to further verify the reasonableness of the current year valuation models and methodology adopted by JRCM Management.
252434 RIT R&A pp075-pp085 04 03 2019 16:20 Page 78 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Risk Our response to the risk The risk of incorrect valuation of direct private investments 297.8m of risk, PY comparative 259.8m Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report page 29 : Accounting policies page 53 : and Note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 60 The valuations of direct private investments are material, complex and include estimates and significant judgments.
The valuation of direct private investments is prepared by Management of J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited JRCM Management and the final valuations are reviewed and approved by the Valuation Committee.
We focus on the valuation of direct private investments because there is the risk that inaccurate judgments made by JRCM Management or the Valuation Committee in the assessment of fair value could materially misstate the investment portfolio in the Balance Sheet.
The valuations are based on the nature of the underlying business which has been invested in.
The methods used include: applying a multiple to earnings and revenues: using a discounted cash flow model: and using recent transaction prices and recent offers.
Key observations communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee The valuation of the direct private investments was found to be reasonable.
All valuations tested were found to be carried in accordance with IFRS and the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines IPEV Guidelines.
Based on our procedures performed we had no matters to report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
78 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp075-pp085 04 03 2019 16:20 Page 79 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Risk Our response to the risk The risk of incorrect valuation of illiquid fund investments We obtained an understanding of JRCM Managements processes and 1,102.2m of risk, PY comparative 1,077.9m controls for determining the fair valuation of illiquid fund investments.
This included Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report page 29 : discussing with JRCM Management the process around their oversight of Accounting policies page 53 : and Note 14 of the the valuations performed by the underlying funds and the role of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 60 Valuation Committee which we observed by attending the half year and year end meetings.
The valuations of illiquid fund investments are material and can include exposures to underlying investments for which On a sample basis, we have: there may be limited observable information for the purpose confirmed the most recently available fund valuation to third party of determining their fair valuation.
statements, including from the General Partner, fund manager or fund The valuations of illiquid fund investments are determined administrator: by the governing bodies of the investment funds, which for all Level 3 classified investment funds and a sample of Level 2 typically involved the underlying fund manager.
The investments funds, we assessed prior year valuations which were based valuations are provided to the Group and assessed by JRCM on unaudited net asset statements by reference to their respective Management.
We have investigated and obtained We focus on the valuation of illiquid fund investments explanations for any differences above our threshold: because there is the risk that inaccurate judgments made by for new fund investments invested in the year, we obtained and JRCM Management or the Valuation Committee in the assessed the due diligence performed by JRCM Management: and assessment of fair value could materially misstate the investment portfolio in the Balance Sheet.
where the most recently available fund valuation is not at the valuation date, we have agreed transactions since that date.
We challenged JRCM Management on the IFRS 13 levelling classification of the illiquid fund portfolio, focusing on those which are considered to be subjective.
This included selecting a sample of Level 2 investment fund holdings, for which the judgment is made considering the nature of the underlying investments of the fund, to review their prior year financial statements and confirm appropriate levelling classification.
Key observations communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee The valuation of the illiquid fund investments was found to be reasonable and materially in accordance with IFRS.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 79 252434 RIT R&A pp075-pp085 04 03 2019 16:20 Page 80 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Risk Our response to the risk The risk of inaccurate recognition of investment income and We obtained an understanding of JRCM Managements processes and gains losses on fair value investments 49.1m of risk, controls around the investment income process and valuation process to PY comparative 263.7m ascertain whether realised and unrealised gains losses are appropriately calculated.
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report page 29 : For gains losses on fair value investments, on a sample basis, we have: Accounting policies page 51 : and Notes 2 and 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 55 recalculated the unrealised gains losses on fair value investments, considering the procedures performed on the valuations outlined in the The accuracy of the recognition and measurement of key audit matters above where relevant: income is important to the Groups financial statements.
agreed a sample of purchases and sales of investments during the year Shareholder expectations may place pressure on JRCM to trade tickets, call and distributions notices, and bank statements: Management to influence the recognition of revenue.
This may result in overstatement or deferral of revenues to assist recalculated realised gain losses from disposals of investments in the in meeting current or future targets or expectations.
year: and The Groups income primarily consists of investment income agreed a sample of the distributions received from unlisted investments and gains losses on fair valued investments, including: to the notices received from the fund managers and or General Partners, investment properties, illiquid fund investments, direct and to the bank statements to gain assurance over the occurrence, private investments and derivatives.
For investment income, on a sample basis, we have: agreed dividend income for listed investments to an independent source and for unlisted investments to supporting documentation: agreed accrued dividends at the period end to post year end bank statements and an external pricing source for occurrence and measurement: recalculated interest income and income from investment properties based on the terms of the underlying agreements: and tested the completeness of income receipts by verifying that any income declared during the period per an independent source had been correctly recorded as an income receipt.
Key observations communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee Our audit procedures did not identify any material matters regarding the recognition of investment income and gains losses on fair value investments.
All transactions tested have been materially recognised in accordance with contractual terms and IFRS.
Based on our procedures performed we had no material matters to report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
80 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp075-pp085 04 03 2019 16:20 Page 81 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Risk Our response to the risk The risk of incomplete or inaccurate related party disclosures We obtained an understanding of JRCM Managements processes and controls around the identification of related parties and related party Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report page 30 : transactions.
and Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements For related parties, we have: page 68 reviewed minutes of the Groups Conflicts Committee who monitor all Due to the number and nature of the Groups related parties arrangements with related parties: there is a risk that the list of related party transactions identified by JRCM Management is not complete.
This is a reviewed the Conflicts Committee Report for the period ended key focus of the Groups Conflicts Committee.
30 September 2018 which details all relevant members of the Rothschild family as well as Directors and Company affiliates of the Rothschild family: inspected JRCM Managements list of related parties and related party transactions for completeness, considering our knowledge gained throughout the audit: haphazardly tested a sample of journal entries to assess the completeness of the related parties disclosures associated with the underlying transactions: agreed related party transactions to supporting documentation: obtained representations from the Directors regarding the completeness and accuracy of related party disclosures: and reviewed the accuracy and completeness of the related party disclosures within the financial statements.
Key observations communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee Our audit procedures did not identify any material inconsistencies between the reported related parties and our testing throughout our audit.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 81 252434 RIT R&A pp075-pp085 04 03 2019 16:20 Page 82 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the Consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as the recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The investment portfolio balance is the most material part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Monitoring and control over the valuation of investments is exercised by JRCM Management centrally in London, and as such is audited wholly by the London based Group audit team.
Monitoring and control over the operations of the subsidiaries within the Group is centralised in London.
The Group audit team performed all the work necessary to issue the Group and Parent Company audit opinion, including undertaking all of the audit work on the risks of material misstatement identified above.
There were no component audit teams.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 28.3 million, which is 1% of net assets.
We have derived our materiality calculation based on net assets as we consider it is the most relevant measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
The predecessor auditor,  LLP, set their materiality at 50 million, being 1.75% of net assets, for the Groups 31 December 2017 audit.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be 27.6 million, which is 1% of net assets.
The predecessor auditor,  LLP, set their materiality at 48.7 million, being 1.75% of net assets, for the Parent Companys 31 December 2017 audit.
We calculated materiality during the planning stage of the audit and then during the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality based on 31 December 2018 net assets, and adjusted our audit procedures accordingly.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely 14.2 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to this being a first year audit.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1.3 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
82 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp075-pp085 04 03 2019 16:20 Page 83 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 2 to 18, 19 to 43 and 86 to 92, including the Strategic Report including sections on: Chairmans Statement, Our Strategy & Business Model, Investment Review, Investment Portfolio and Principal Risks and Viability, Governance including sections on: Board of Directors, J. Rothschild Capital Management, Corporate Governance Report, Audit and Risk Committee Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Directors Report and Other Information including sections on: Investment Portfolio Reconciliation, Glossary, Historical Information and Financial Calendar, Investor Information and Directory, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 28 the statement by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on page 29 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee, and is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 27 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 83 252434 RIT R&A pp075-pp085 04 03 2019 16:20 Page 84 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 27, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and JRCM Management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements.
We determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and relevant tax compliance regulations.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may influence the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements including the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
We understood how RIT Capital Partners plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of JRCM Management, including the Legal Manager and Company Secretary, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Compliance and Internal Audit and also the Non-Executive Directors including the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk Committee and Valuation Committee.
We corroborated our understanding through our review of board minutes, papers provided to the Audit and Risk Committee and correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
84 Report and Accounts December 2018 RIT Capital Partners plc 252434 RIT R&A pp075-pp085 04 03 2019 16:20 Page 85 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with Directors and JRCM Management to understand where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their potential influence on efforts made by Directors and JRCM Management to manage NAV per share or the NAV per share total return.
We identified fraud and management override risks in relation to revenue recognition and estimation uncertainty relating to the valuation of illiquid investments.
Our audit procedures stated above in the Key audit matters section of this Auditors report were performed to address each identified fraud risk.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of Directors and JRCM Management: and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 26 April 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is one year, covering the year ending 31 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matthew Price Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 4 March 2019 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the RIT Capital Partners plc web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2018 85 252434 RIT R&A pp086-end.
