Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Financial Statements I NDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS O F RPC GROUP PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, RPC Group Plcs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements : n give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the groups profit and the groups and the companys cash flows for the year then ended: n have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and n have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 March 2018: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and Company cash flow statements, and the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the company.
Other than those disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the company in the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
Our audit approach Context The context for our audit is set by RPCs significant acquisition activity over recent years and the continued integration of many of those acquisitions, which has resulted in significant adjusting items.
Overview n Overall group materiality: 19.5m 2017: 14.3m, based on 5% of profit before tax after adding back the adjusting items as set out in note 4. n Overall company materiality: 15.5m 2017: 17.2m, based on 1% of net assets.
n The group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, comprising the groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
None of these reporting units are individually significant.
n Following our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements, we performed audits of the complete financial information of 45 reporting units 2017: 42 reporting units, and specific audit procedures focused on areas of significant risk in respect of a further four reporting units 2017: 20 reporting units.
Within the 49 reporting units on which we performed work in 2018, four Materiality of these 2017: one represent separate sub-consolidations of a total of 59 additional reporting units within the group consolidation at either the divisional or territory level.
Audit scope n In addition, the company and certain centralised functions, including those covering adjusting items, post-employment obligations, derivative financial instruments, taxation, fair value adjustments relating to acquisitions, goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments and the consolidation were audited by the group audit team.
Areas of focus n The reporting units on which audits of the complete financial information, specific audit procedures and centralised work was performed, accounted for 60% 2017: 65% of group revenue.
n As part of our supervision process, the group audit team visited component auditors in Germany, South Africa and the UK and visited the US in order to perform audit work over the Letica business.
We also visited an RPC site in Denmark which had been significantly impacted by the major integration programme in the year.
96 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements I NDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS O F RPC GROUP PLC CONTINUED Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed our views on the areas of particular focus for our work which are listed below: n Presentation and disclosure of adjusting items applicable to the group financial statements.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and reporting unit level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the group and company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, Tax legislation, Employment regulation, Health and Safety legislation, and other legislation specific to the industry in which the group operates.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with the regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, enquiries with component auditors and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Financial Statements Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
There were no key audit matters in relation to the company financial statements.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Presentation and disclosure of adjusting items applicable to the group financial statements Refer to Audit Committee Report on page 74, Principal Accounting Policies on page 109 and to the Adjusting items note on page 121.
Adjusting items Adjusting items The financial statements include certain items which are disclosed as We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policy and whether adjusting in nature.
These are classified into the following four areas.
those items disclosed as adjusting were consistent with the accounting policy and the approach taken in previous accounting periods.
In relation to the four areas set 1.
Acquisition, integration and related restructuring costs include: out opposite: n Major integration programme costs consisting of 23.8m 2017: 56.1m 1.
For acquisition, integration and related restructuring costs, our testing relating to the ongoing Promens and GCS integration programmes as well approach varied depending on the nature of the items.
as the integration programme for bpi: n Acquisition costs of 3.9m 2017: 18.9m : n For major integration programme costs, our work confirmed that these costs n A net credit of 11.5m 2017: credit of 11.2m relating to the reduction in related to specific integration plans as a result of previous acquisitions.
provision for contingent consideration, the majority of which is in relation As well as agreeing a sample of these costs to supporting evidence the Group to the Ace acquisition see below : audit team, including the Group Audit Partner visited an RPC site in Denmark n Other restructuring costs of 11.2m 2017: 6.4m : and which had been significantly impacted by the major integration programme.
n Amortisation of acquired intangible assets of 50.7m 2017: 31.0m.
As part of this visit, the Group audit team were able to see the improvements that had been made to the site as well as meeting with the specific Divisional 2.
Other adjusting items include: Finance Directors for RPC M&H and RPC Promens to discuss the detailed n Insurance proceeds of 11.0m relating to recoveries for a fire at a site in plans of the major integration programme in total.
Belgium: and n For acquisition costs we agreed a sample of these costs to supporting n Other adjusting items of 2.2m 2017: 4.3m.
evidence to verify that they were one-off in nature and related to specific acquisitions.
Adjusting items in net financing costs 3.5m 2017: 15.2m.
n For our response to the net credit relating to the reduction in provision for 4.
The tax impact on the above listed items of 17.0m 2017: 23.2m and a contingent consideration, see below.
tax credit for the impact of US Tax Reform of 12.9m.
n For amortisation of acquired intangible assets we recomputed the amortisation charge in line with the group accounting policy.
We focussed on this area because adjusting items are not defined by IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the directors must therefore apply 2.
For other adjusting items within operating costs and in relation to net judgment to identify such items.
Incorrect classification of these items could financing costs, we verified a sample of the items to supporting evidence, lead to misinterpretation of the financial results.
including bank statements to verify the receipt of the insurance proceeds, and ensured a consistent application of the accounting policy to prior periods.
We recomputed the taxation charges to confirm the impact of the US Tax Reform, and confirm that the tax rate applied to each adjusting item was appropriate.
As the adjusting items include both costs and income, we have considered other items within the Consolidated Income Statement to confirm completeness of the classification.
We found the Groups accounting policy to be appropriate and the classification of items to be consistent with the accounting policy and the treatment of similar items in prior years.
98 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements I NDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS O F RPC GROUP PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Ace and Letica contingent consideration Ace and Letica contingent consideration The directors have reconsidered their estimate of the contingent For the Ace contingent consideration, we reviewed the basis of these calculations consideration that is likely to be payable in relation to the acquisition of Ace.
and verified the actual performance of the business in the current year to the Based on the information currently available to them, they have considered supporting financial results and understood the nature and rationale of adjusting the provision in the light of their current expectations as to the amount of items.
consideration which they believe will be payable based on performance to For Letica, we considered the current performance of the business and the the end of the earn-out period at December 2017. forecast performance as prepared by management and approved by the Board.
The directors have also considered the estimate of contingent consideration We understood the sensitivities within the forecasts and agreed the contingent that is likely to be payable in relation to the acquisition of Letica.
Based consideration calculation to the agreements.
on the information currently available to them, they have considered In each case we have concluded that the provision at the end of the year is the provision in light of their current expectations as to the amount of reasonable based on information that is currently available.
consideration which they believe will be payable based on expected performance to the end of the earn-out period at June 2019.
Accordingly, there has been a release in the provision for contingent consideration in the year of 20.7m, primarily in relation to Ace, to reflect the current view of the final payment to be made.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
The group is structured along seven divisions being RPC Ace, RPC Bebo, RPC bpi group, RPC Bramlage, RPC M&H, RPC Promens and RPC Superfos, each with their own Finance Director who reports into thegroup financeteam.
Each division contains multiple reporting units, across different regions, which are consolidated toform the group financial statements.
The group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, comprising the groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
These reporting unitsmaintain their own accounting records and controls and report to the head office finance team through an integrated consolidation system.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each reporting unit and we usedauditors within PwC UK and fromother PwC network firms operating under our instruction, who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of these territories to perform this work.
Accordingly, we identified45 2017: 42 which, in our view, required a full audit of their complete financial information in order to ensure that sufficient appropriate audit evidence was obtained.
Thereporting units on which a full audit of their complete financial information was performed accounted for 48% 2017: 55% of Group revenue.
There are no individually significant reporting units due to size or risk profile.
Specificaudit procedures focused on areasof significant risk in respect of afurther four 2017: 20 reporting units were performed with due consideration paid to obtaining global coverage on a rotational basis.
Within the 49 reporting units at which we performed work in 2018, four of these 2017: one represent separate sub-consolidations of a total of 59 additional reporting units within the Group consolidation at either the divisional or territory level.
This scope involved sites in China, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Norway, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, the UK and the USA.
The Group consolidation, financial statements disclosures and a number of centralised functions were audited by the Group audit team at the head office.
These included, but were not limited to, central procedures on adjusting items, post-employment obligations, derivative financial instruments, taxation, fair value adjustments relating toacquisitions, goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments.
We also performed Group level analytical procedures on all of the remaining out of scope reporting units to identify whether any further audit evidence was needed, which resulted in no extra testing.
TheCompany was also subject to a full scope audit by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visits component auditors based on significance and or risk characteristics, as well as on a rotational basis to ensure coverage across the Group.
In the current year, the Group audit team visitedcomponent auditorsinGermany, South Africaand the UK and visited the US in order to perform audit work over the Letica business.
Additionallythe Group audit team was in contact, at each stage of the audit, with all component teamsthrough regular written communication in line with detailedinstructions issued by the Group audit team.
In addition, for a number of thecomponent teams, the Group team discussed in detail the planned audit approach at the componentlevel and discussed the detailed findings of the audit with the component team.
The reporting units on which audits of the complete financial information, specific audit procedures and centralised work was performed, accounted for 60% 2017: 65% of Group revenue.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Financial Statements Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 19.5m 2017: 14.3m.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax after adding back the adjusting items 1% of net assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax, after adding back The entity is a holding company for the rest of the Group and adjusting items is the primary measure used by the not a trading company.
Therefore an asset based measure is shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group.
The exclusion of items classified as adjusting is consistent with previous periods.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across reporting units was between 150,000 and 4,000,000.
Certain reporting units were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 950,000 Group audit 2017: 550,000 and 775,000 Company audit 2017: 450,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, because not all attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going to the groups and companys ability to continue as a going concern.
concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
100 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements I NDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS O F RPC GROUP PLC CONTINUED Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: n The directors confirmation on page 77 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
n The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
n The directors explanation on page 33 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: n The statement given by the directors, on page 77, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
n The section of the Annual Report on page 76 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
n The directors statement relating to the companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 94, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 Financial Statements Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: n we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or n adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or n certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or n the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 15 July 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 3 years, covering the years ended 31 March 2016 to 31 March 2018.
Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 6 June 2018
