Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Royal Mail plc Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in 1.
Our opinion is unmodified accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical We have audited the financial statements of Royal Mail plc Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit the Company for the 52 weeks ended 25 March 2018 which services prohibited by that standard were provided.
comprise the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated and parent Company balance Overview sheet, the Consolidated and parent Company statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated statement of cash flows and the related Materiality: 20m 2016-17: 20m notes, and the Significant accounting policies on page 149.
Group financial 5% 2016-17: 5% of adjusted statements as In our opinion: profit before tax a whole the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 25 March 2018 Coverage 99.5% 2016-17:100% of Group profit and of the Groups profit for the 52 weeks then ended: before tax the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Risks of material misstatement vs 2016-17 accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: Recurring risks Deferred revenue associated with advance customer payments arising the parent Company financial statements have been properly from stamps sold prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and Valuation of pension scheme assets and liabilities the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Industrial disease claims provision financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Ofcom competition investigation Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Recoverability of parent Companys Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are investment in subsidiaries and debt described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained due from group entities parent is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion Company only is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the Directors on 23 July 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the three financial years ended 25 March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 101 Royal Mail plc | Independent auditors report 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Our results Our procedures included: We found the estimate Deferred revenue associated Subjective estimate of deferred revenue to with advance customer Deferred revenue is estimated Our statistical expertise: with the be acceptable 2016-17 payments arising from for advance payments made by assistance of our own statistical specialists, result: acceptable.
stamps sold households who purchase stamps assessing and evaluating the methodology 179 million 2016-17: in advance of actual usage.
The used by the Groups independent third 184 million Group estimates the amounts that party specialist to determine the number of have been sold but not used at year stamps held at the balance sheet date and Refer to page 71 Audit and Risk end and defers revenue to reflect its consistent application year on year.
Committee Report, page 150 the fact that the service will need accounting policy Benchmarking assumptions: to be provided by the Group during challenging key assumptions and inputs future accounting periods for to the calculation, including survey size, pre-purchased stamps.
household data and caps in place to As no unique identification of the address the impact of abnormal holdings.
stamps unused is possible, the Survey specialists credentials: assessing calculation and methodology of the competence, independence and integrity the advance customer payments of the Groups third party survey specialist balance is inherently subjective which provides the survey data.
by nature and is based on inputs including third party surveys and Independent re-performance: testing Group sales data.
The methodology the survey data used in the calculation, adjusts for stamp holdings which agreeing inputs to the survey specialists are considered to be abnormal.
results, and re-performing the calculation of deferred revenue and comparing this to the Groups result.
Benchmarking approach: comparing the approach with that adopted by other global postal service providers.
Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the deferred revenue adjustment.
We found the valuation Valuation of pension scheme Subjective valuation Our procedures included: of the pension obligation assets and liabilities Significant estimates are made in Benchmarking assumptions: challenging and assets to be 3,323 million surplus valuing the Groups post retirement key assumptions applied, being the acceptable 2016-17 pre-IFRIC 14 adjustment, defined benefit plan obligations, discount rate, inflation rate, mortality and result: acceptable.
net of 7,038 million liability: including in particular the discount pension increases following the decision 2016-17: 3,855 million surplus rate, the inflation assumptions, to close the RMPP scheme to future pre-IFRIC 14 adjustment, net mortality and pension accrual from 1 April 2018 with the support of 5,992 million liability increases assumptions.
of our own actuarial specialists, including a comparison of key assumptions against Refer to page 71 Audit and Significant estimates are made market data.
Risk Committee Report, in valuing certain of the pension page 149 accounting policy schemes assets comprising Tests of details: we obtained third and page 122 financial unquoted equity investments, party valuation confirmations directly disclosures.
unquoted derivatives, mutual funds from fund managers.
We compared and fixed income bonds.
those confirmations with unaudited NAV statements and tested the ability Small changes in the assumptions of fund managers to prepare accurate and estimates used to value the valuations by validating these amounts to Groups pension obligations and financial statements.
assets would have a significant effect on the financial position of Actuarys and fund managers the Group.
credentials: assessing the competence, independence and integrity of the Groups actuarial expert and third party expert fund managers.
Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the surplus to key assumptions.
102 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement The risk Our response Our results We found the estimation Industrial disease Subjective estimate Our procedures included: regarding the provision claims provision A number of judgments are Our valuation expertise: with the for industrial diseases to 83 million, 2016-17: made in the assessment of the assistance of our own valuation be acceptable 2016-17 84 million Groups liability for industrial specialists, assessing the method used result: acceptable disease claims including the future Refer to page 71 Audit and by the Groups independent adviser to number of claims, average cost of Risk Committee Report, calculate the provision including our claims, future claims inflation and page 149 accounting policy experience of models used in the market discount rate.
and page 141 financial for comparative types of provisions.
Small changes in these judgements Benchmarking assumptions: would have a significant effect on challenging the assumptions used, the financial position of the Group.
including the discount rate and the historical incidence of claims, in the calculation of the provision, including a comparison against the UK Asbestos Working Party Update 2009.
Third party provider credentials: assessing the competence, independence and integrity of the Groups third party adviser used in estimating the industrial disease provision.
Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of this provision.
Ofcom competition Dispute outcome Our procedures included: We found the approach investigation An investigation by Ofcom is taken in considering the Enquiry with lawyers: inspecting contingent liability ongoing regarding alleged antiaccounting implication relevant correspondence and holding competitive conduct.
Ofcoms of the investigation Refer to page 71 Audit and Risk discussions with the Groups in house provisional view is that Royal and the contingent Committee Report, page 156 team and external legal advisers to Mail breached competition law by liability disclosures to accounting policy and understand the current position of engaging in conduct that amounted be acceptable 2016-17 page 143 financial disclosures the investigation.
to unlawful discrimination against disclosures: acceptable Accounting analysis: challenging the a postal operator competing with assessment performed by the Directors Royal Mails delivery service.
to determine if the criteria for recognising Depending on the outcome of a provision have been met at the the Ofcom investigation and any period end.
appeal, Royal Mail may be fined.
Assessing transparency: Considering No provision is currently recognised the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in as the outcome of the investigation respect of the contingent liability.
Recoverability of parent Low risk, high value Our procedures included: We found the carrying Companys investment in The carrying amount of the value of investments Tests of detail: Compared the carrying subsidiaries and debt due parent Companys investments in and the recoverability of amount of 100 per cent of investments from group entities Parent subsidiaries and debt due from intercompany receivables with the relevant subsidiaries draft Company only Group entities represents 100 per to be acceptable balance sheet to identify whether their Investments 2,081 million: cent 2016-17: 100 per cent of the 2016-17 result: net assets, being an approximation of 2016-17: 2,040 million Companys total assets.
acceptable their minimum recoverable amount, were Debt due from group entities Their recoverability is not at a high in excess of their carrying amount and 434 million: 2016-17: risk of significant misstatement.
assessing whether those subsidiaries 396 million However, due to their materiality in have historically been profit-making.
the context of the parent Company Refer to page 160 Assessing transparency: Assessing financial statements, this is accounting policy and the adequacy of the parent Companys considered to be the area that had page 161 financial disclosures.
disclosures in respect of the investment in the greatest effect on our overall subsidiaries and group debtor balance.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 103 Royal Mail plc | Independent auditors report The Group team visited the GLS component Strategic report and 3.
Our application of and held telephone meetings with the RMPFS Directors report materiality and an component 2016-17: GLS component at the Based solely on our work on the planning, execution and finalisation stages overview of the scope of other information: of the audit including to assess the audit risk our audit and strategy.
The Group team attended the we have not identified material Materiality for the Group financial statements key clearance meetings and Audit and Risk misstatements in the Strategic report and as a whole was set at 20 million 2016-17: Committees.
Video and telephone conference the Directors report: 20 million.
meetings were also held regularly with the in our opinion the information given component auditors.
Part of these visits The materiality is based on an adjusted in those reports for the financial and meetings included discussion of the profit before tax measure.
In 2016-17 the year is consistent with the financial findings reported to the Group team in more adjustments were to add back the IFRS 2 statements: and detail, and any further work required by the charge for Employee Free Shares issued, the Group audit team was then performed by the loss on disposal of business operations and in our opinion those reports have component auditor.
exclude the profit on disposal of property, been prepared in accordance with the plant and equipment.
We have nothing to report adjustment has been made to reflect a four Directors Remuneration report year average of annual pension costs due on going concern In our opinion the part of the Directors to the significant impact in the current year.
We are required to report to you if: Remuneration report to be audited has been The items not included in the benchmark properly prepared in accordance with the we have anything material to add or were all subject to audit procedures by the Companies Act 2006. draw attention to in relation to the Group team.
The materiality of 20 million Directors statement in Note 1 to the 2016-17: 20 million represents 5 per cent Disclosures of principal risks and financial statements on the use of the of the adjusted profit before tax measure longer-term viability going concern basis of accounting with of 404 million 2016-17: 5 per cent: Based on the knowledge we acquired during no material uncertainties that may cast 428 million.
our Financial Statements audit, we have significant doubt over the Group and Materiality for the parent Company financial nothing material to add or draw attention to in Companys use of that basis for a period statements as a whole was set at 17 million relation to: of at least twelve months from the date of 2016-17: 18 million, determined with approval of the financial statements: or the Directors confirmation within the reference to a benchmark of net assets, of Viability Statement on page 46 that they the related statement under the Listing which it represents 1 per cent 2016-17: have carried out a robust assessment Rules set out on page 98 is materially 1 per cent.
of the principal risks facing the Group, inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We reported to the Audit and Risk Committee including those that would threaten its We have nothing to report in these respects.
any corrected or uncorrected identified business model, future performance, misstatements exceeding a profit before tax solvency and liquidity: 5.
We have nothing to report impact of 1.0 million 2016-17: 1.0 million the Principal Risks disclosures describing or a reclassification impact of 5.0 million on the other information these risks and explaining how they are 2016-17: 5.0 million, in addition to other being managed and mitigated: and in the Annual Report identified misstatements that warranted The Directors are responsible for the other reporting on qualitative grounds.
the Directors explanation in the Viability information presented in the Annual Report statement of how they have assessed the Of the Groups 23 2016-17: 23 reporting together with the Financial Statements.
Our prospects of the Group, over what period components, we subjected four 2016-17: opinion on the Financial Statements does not they have done so and why they considered three to full scope audits for Group cover the other information and, accordingly, that period to be appropriate, and their purposes.
The components within the scope we do not express an audit opinion or, statement as to whether they have a of our work accounted for 99.7 per cent of except as explicitly stated below, any form of reasonable expectation that the Group will revenue, 99.5 per cent of profit before tax and assurance conclusion thereon.
be able to continue in operation and meet 99.8 per cent of total assets.
its liabilities as they fall due over the period Our responsibility is to read the other The work on two GLS and RMPFS of the of their assessment, including any related information and, in doing so, consider four components 2016-17: one of the three disclosures drawing attention to any whether, based on our financial statements components was performed by component necessary qualifications or assumptions.
audit work, the information therein is auditors and the rest by the Group team.
materially misstated or inconsistent with the Under the Listing Rules we are required financial statements or our audit knowledge.
The Group team instructed component to review the Viability statement.
We have Based solely on that work we have not auditors as to the significant areas to be nothing to report in this respect.
identified material misstatements in the covered, including the relevant risks detailed other information.
above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team also approved the component materialities, which ranged from 6 million to 17 million 2016-17: 17 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
104 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information free from material misstatement, whether related financial statement items.
Further Corporate governance disclosures due to fraud or error: assessing the Group detail in respect of competition law is set We are required to report to you if: and parent Companys ability to continue as out in the key audit matter disclosures in we have identified material inconsistencies a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, section 2 of this report.
between the knowledge we acquired matters related to going concern: and using We communicated identified laws and during our financial statements audit the going concern basis of accounting unless regulations throughout our team and and the Directors statement that they they either intend to liquidate the Group or the remained alert to any indications of consider that the Annual Report and parent Company or to cease operations, or non-compliance throughout the audit.
This Financial Statements taken as a whole have no realistic alternative but to do so.
included communication from the Group to is fair, balanced and understandable component audit teams of relevant laws and and provides the information necessary Auditors responsibilities regulations identified at Group level, with for shareholders to assess the Groups Our objectives are to obtain reasonable a request to report on any indications of position and performance, business model assurance about whether the Financial potential existence of non-compliance with and strategy: or Statements as a whole are free from material relevant laws and regulations irregularities in misstatement, whether due to fraud or other the section of the Annual Report these areas, or other areas directly identified irregularities see below, or error, and to issue describing the work of the Audit and Risk by the component team.
our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable Committee does not appropriately address assurance is a high level of assurance, but As with any audit, there remained a higher matters communicated by us to the Audit does not guarantee that an audit conducted risk of non-detection of non-compliance with and Risk Committee.
in accordance with ISAs UK will always relevant laws and regulations irregularities, We are required to report to you if the detect a material misstatement when it exists.
as these may involve collusion, forgery, statement of Corporate Governance does not Misstatements can arise from fraud, other intentional omissions, misrepresentations, properly disclose a departure from the eleven irregularities or error and are considered or the override of internal controls.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance material if, individually or in aggregate, they Code specified by the Listing Rules for could reasonably be expected to influence 8.
The purpose of our audit our review.
the economic decisions of users taken on the work and to whom we basis of the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
owe our responsibilities A fuller description of our responsibilities 6.
We have nothing to report is provided on the FRCs website at This report is made solely to the Companys www.
members, as a body, in accordance with on the other matters on Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Irregularities ability to detect which we are required to 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken We identified areas of laws and regulations so that we might state to the Companys report by exception that could reasonably be expected to have a members those matters we are required Under the Companies Act 2006, we are material effect on the financial statements to state to them in an auditors report and required to report to you if, in our opinion: from our sector experience and through for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent discussion with the directors and other permitted by law, we do not accept or assume adequate accounting records have not management as required by auditing responsibility to anyone other than the been kept by the parent Company, or standards, and from inspection of the groups Company and the Companys members, as a returns adequate for our audit have not regulatory and legal correspondence.
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for been received from branches not visited We had regard to laws and regulations in areas the opinions we have formed.
by us: or that directly affect the financial statements the parent Company financial including financial reporting including related statements and the part of the Directors company legislation and taxation legislation.
remuneration report to be audited are not We considered the extent of compliance Richard Pinckard Senior Statutory Auditor in agreement with the accounting records with those laws and regulations as part for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory and returns: or of our procedures on the related financial Auditor statement items.
certain disclosures of directors Chartered Accountants remuneration specified by law are not In addition we considered the impact of 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL made: or laws and regulations in the specific areas of 16 May 2018 health and safety, anti-bribery, employment we have not received all the information law, competition law, postal regulation and explanations we require for our audit.
as relevant to Royal Mails UK regulated We have nothing to report in these respects.
business, and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the financial and 7.
Respective regulated nature of the groups activities responsibilities and its legal form.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as Directors responsibilities required by auditing standards, our work As explained more fully in their statement set in respect of these was limited to enquiry out on page 99, the Directors are responsible of the Directors and other management for: the preparation of the Financial and inspection of regulatory and legal Statements including being satisfied that they correspondence.
We considered the effect of give a true and fair view: such internal control any known or possible non-compliance in as they determine is necessary to enable the these areas as part of our procedures on the preparation of financial statements that are Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 105
