Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Opinion We have audited the financial statements see table below of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc which comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018: Balance sheet as at 31 December 2018: Consolidated income statement for the year then ended: Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Cash flow statement for the year then ended: and then ended: Related notes 1 to 10 to the financial statements.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: Accounting policies on pages 181 to 185: Related Notes 1 to 35 to the financial statements: Information identified as audited in the Annual report on remuneration: and Capital and risk management section of the Business review identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to, the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation in the Annual Report and Accounts that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors viability statement in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the accounting policies, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the Group has applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
166 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements, as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Risk Our response to the risk Provisions for conduct, litigation and regulatory matters, customer remediation and claims The continued litigious environment and We tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls over the identification, estimation, monitoring and disclosure of provisions considering the potential for heightened regulatory scrutiny gives rise to a high management override of controls.
The controls tested included those designed and level of judgement in determining appropriate operated by management to identify and monitor claims, and to assess the provisions and disclosures.
At 31 December completeness and accuracy of data used to estimate provisions.
2018, the Group has reported 3.0 billion 2017: 7.8 billion of provisions for liabilities and We examined the relevant regulatory and legal correspondence to assess charges, including 2.0 billion 2017: 5.8 billion developments in key cases.
For the cases which were settled during the period, such as for conduct and litigation claims, including the investigations by the US Department of Justice DoJ, we verified the actual Residential Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS, outflows, compared with the level of existing provision, considered whether further risk existed, and evaluated the level of disclosures provided.
Payment Protection Insurance PPI and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA review of For the significant provisions made, such as PPI and the FCA review of RBSs RBSs treatment of Small and Medium-sized treatment of SMEs, we understood, assessed and challenged the provisioning Enterprises SMEs as detailed in Note 20 of the methodology.
We tested the underlying data and assumptions used in the determination financial statements.
of the provisions recorded, including expected claim rates, legal costs, and the timing of settlement.
We considered the accuracy of managements historical estimates and peer Management judgement is needed to determine bank settlement in similar cases.
We also developed our own range of reasonable whether an obligation exists and a provision alternative estimates and compared them to managements provision.
should be recorded at 31 December 2018 in We received confirmations from the Groups external counsel for significant matters to accordance with the accounting criteria set under confirm the existence of the obligation and managements estimate of the outflow at IAS 37. year-end.
We corroborated managements conclusion by challenging the underlying information used in estimating the provisions including consideration of alternate The most significant areas of judgement are: sources.
Adequacy of provisions: judgement is involved in the determination of whether an We considered regulatory developments and, for key cases, assessed the outflow in respect of identified material reasonableness of the assumptions used by management by comparing to the results conduct or legal matters are probable and of our independently performed benchmarking and sensitivity analysis.
Where can be estimated reliably and the appropriate, we involved our conduct risk specialists.
We also verified historical data appropriateness of assumptions and and whether it supported current estimates.
judgements used in the estimation of We tested the disclosures provided on conduct, litigation and regulatory provisions to material provisions: and determine whether they complied with accounting standards.
Given the inherent Adequacy of disclosures of provision for estimation uncertainty and the judgmental nature of these provisions, we evaluated the liabilities and charges and contingent appropriateness of the disclosure made in the financial statements.
Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that the Groups provisions for conduct, litigation and regulatory matters, customer remediation and claims are within a reasonable range and recognised in accordance with IFRS.
We did not identify any material unrecorded provisions.
We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit Committee: The PPI provision remains sensitive to key assumptions, the most significant of which is future complaint volumes.
Managements estimate was within our range of outcomes based on reasonable alternative assumptions: The provision related to the FCA review of the Groups treatment of SMEs is sensitive to a number of assumptions.
Managements estimate is within an acceptable range based on the current information available: and We obtained the RMBS settlement agreements with the US Department of Justice for the amount settled during the year.
We are satisfied that the provision for remaining matters are reasonable.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee Accounting policies Note 20 on the financial statements 167 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Risk Our response to the risk Impairment of loans On 1 January 2018, a new accounting standard As IFRS 9 was adopted at the start of the year, we performed audit procedures on the opening balances to gain assurance on the transition from IAS 39.
This included for financial instruments IFRS 9 became evaluating the accounting interpretations for compliance with IFRS 9 and testing the effective, which introduced impairment based on adjustments and disclosures made on transition.
expected credit losses, rather than the incurred loss model previously applied under IAS 39.
We tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls across the processes relevant to the ECL.
This included the allocation of assets into stages, model At 31 December 2018 the Group reported total governance, data accuracy and completeness, credit monitoring, multiple economic gross loans of 319.8 billion and 3.4 billion of scenarios, post model adjustments, individual provisions and production of journal expected credit loss provisions.
Key judgements and estimates in respect of the We observed the key executive finance and risk committees where the inputs, timing and measurement of expected credit assumptions and adjustments to the ECL were discussed and approved.
losses ECL include: We performed an overall assessment of the ECL provision levels by stage to determine Allocation of assets to stage 1, 2, or 3 using if they were reasonable considering the Groups portfolio, risk profile, credit risk criteria in accordance with the accounting management practices and the macroeconomic environment.
We considered trends in standard: the economy and industries to which the Group is exposed.
Accounting interpretations and modelling We challenged the criteria used to allocate an asset to stage 1, 2 or 3 in accordance assumptions used to build the models that with IFRS 9: this included peer benchmarking to assess staging levels.
We tested calculate the ECL: assets in stage 1, 2 and 3 to verify that they were allocated to the appropriate stage.
Completeness and accuracy of data used to calculate the ECL: With the support of our internal modelling specialists, we tested the assumptions, inputs Inputs and assumptions used to estimate the and formulas used in a sample of ECL models.
This included assessing the impact of multiple economic scenarios: appropriateness of model design and formulas used, considering alternative modelling techniques and recalculating the Probability of Default, Loss Given Default and Completeness and valuation of post model Exposure at Default for a sample of models.
adjustments: Measurements of individually assessed To verify data quality, we tested the data used in the ECL calculation by reconciling to provisions including the assessment of source systems.
To test credit monitoring, we recalculated the risk ratings for a sample multiple scenarios: and of performing loans.
Accuracy and adequacy of the financial With the support of our internal economic specialists, we assessed the base case and statement disclosures.
alternative economic scenarios, including challenging probability weights and comparing to other scenarios from a variety of external sources, as well as EY internally developed forecasts.
We assessed whether forecasted macroeconomic variables were appropriate, such as GDP, unemployment, interest rates and House Price Index.
With the support of our modelling specialists we challenged the correlation and impact of the macroeconomic factors to the ECL including how non-linearity was captured.
We assessed the completeness and appropriateness of post model adjustments and recalculated a sample.
Based on current economic conditions and market circumstances, we considered the need for sector or systemic adjustments.
We assessed the appropriateness of the scenarios used and calculation of the overlay in response to Brexit related economic uncertainty.
With the support of our internal valuation specialists, we recalculated a sample of individually assessed provisions including comparing to alternative scenarios and challenging probability weights assigned.
The sample was based on a number of factors including higher risk sectors such as construction, retail, automotive, commercial real estate, shipping and oil and gas We assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of disclosures for compliance with the accounting standards including disclosure of transition from IAS 39.
Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that credit impairment provisions were reasonable and in compliance with IFRS 9.
We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit Committee: Control deficiencies were identified on the transition to IFRS 9 and several compensating controls were implemented notably in the process to produce the financial statement disclosures: Our testing and sensitivity analysis on the staging criteria did not identify material differences and overall, we concluded that the stage allocation at 31 December 2018 was reasonable: Our testing of models and model assumptions did not highlight material differences.
and For individually assessed impairments, in a few instances we reported judgemental differences in respect of the extent of the impairment identified, however none of these differences were considered material.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee Credit Risk section of the Capital and risk management section Accounting policies Note 14 on the financial statements 168 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Risk Our response to the risk Future profitability estimates impacting the recognition of deferred tax and the impairment of goodwill and, in the parent company accounts, investments in subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2018 the Group had reported We tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls over the preparation Goodwill of 5.6 billion 2017: 5.6 billion and and review of the forecasts, the significant assumptions, inputs, calculations, deferred tax assets of 1.4 billion 2017: 1.7 methodologies and judgements.
The parent company has reported With the support of our internal economic specialists, we tested whether key investments in subsidiaries of 57.7 billion 2017: macroeconomic assumptions, including Brexit considerations, used in the Groups 47.6 billion.
Given the uncertainty on Brexit and its The recognition and carrying value of deferred tax consequential impact on the macro-economic assumptions and resulting forecasts, we considered the need for additional disclosures in the financial statements.
assets, goodwill and, in the parent company accounts, investments in subsidiaries are based We assessed the reasonableness of revenue forecasts by challenging the underlying on estimates of future profitability, which require business strategies, comparing to expected market trends and considering anticipated significant management judgement.
recognition of deferred tax assets considers the future profit forecasts of the legal entities as well We evaluated how the discount rates and long-term growth rates used by management as interpretation of recent changes to tax rates compared to our reasonable ranges which were informed by peer practice, external and laws.
market data and calculations performed by our valuation specialists.
We tested how previous management forecasts, including the impact of cost reduction programmes, compared to actual results to evaluate the accuracy of the forecasting Key judgements and estimates include: process.
We assessed the achievability of future cost reduction plans by reviewing and Revenue and cost forecasts which are challenging the details of the underlying initiatives and how key cost ratios compared to impacted by the Groups transformation peer banks and commentaries from external analysts.
programme: We evaluated how management considered alternative assumptions and performed our Key assumptions used in the recoverability own sensitivity and scenario analyses on certain key assumptions.
and valuation assessments discount rates, growth rates, macroeconomic assumptions, With the support of our taxation specialists, we assessed the estimate of future taxable etc.
: profits used to calculate the level of deferred tax assets recognised, including an assessment of the time horizon used for the recoverability of losses and other Assumptions regarding the economic temporary differences.
consequences of Brexit and other political developments over an extended period.. Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit Committee: Sensitivity analysis of the value in use and headroom to changes in the key assumptions in the forecasts supported the carrying values of both goodwill and investment in subsidiaries: Our stress testing of the Groups forecast cost reduction including the amount and timing supported the Groups conclusion that no impairment was required to goodwill or the investment in subsidiaries: and We noted the inherent uncertainty predicting revenue and costs over the five-year forecasts period, particularly with respect to the impact of Brexit, and other political developments, and disruptions in the business model over an extended period.
We are satisfied that the carrying values of deferred tax assets, goodwill and, in the parent company accounts, investments in subsidiaries are reasonable and the related disclosures are compliant with IFRS Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee Accounting policies Note 7 and Note 16 on the financial statements, and Note 6 on the Parent company financial statements.
169 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Risk Our response to the risk Valuation of financial instruments with higher risk characteristics including related income from trading activities The valuation of financial instruments with higher We performed walkthroughs of transactions from inception to financial reporting to risk characteristics involves both significant confirm our understanding of process and controls in the area of revenue recognition.
judgement and the risk of inappropriate revenue We tested the design and operating effectiveness of controls including independent recognition through incorrect pricing.
The price verification, model review and approval, collateral management, and income judgement in estimating fair value of these statement analysis and reporting.
instruments can involve complex valuation models and significant fair value adjustments With the support of our internal financial instrument valuation and modelling specialists both of which may be reliant on data inputs we performed the following procedures: where there is limited market observability.
At 31 December 2018 the Group reported level 3 Tested complex model-dependent valuations using our internally developed assets of 3.3 billion 2017: 3.2 billion and level challenger models and review of model documentation to challenge the 3 liabilities of 1.95 billion 2016: 2.2 billion.
appropriateness of models and the adequacy of assumptions and inputs used by the Group: The key judgements and estimates are: We re-priced instruments that had been valued using illiquid pricing inputs, using independently obtained alternative pricing sources challenging and substantiating Complex model-dependent valuations, which any differences between managements valuation: and include interest-rate swaps linked to prepayment behaviour and interest rate and For fair value adjustments we compared the methodology used to current market foreign exchange options with exotic features practice.
We re-valued a sample of counterparty level FVA and CVA, compared such as those having multiple call dates or funding spreads to third party data and independently challenged illiquid CVA inputs.
with a variable notional: We performed back-testing analysis of recent trade activity to verify the drivers of Pricing inputs and calibrations for illiquid any significant differences between book value and trade value to challenge the impact on the fair value of similar instruments within the portfolio.
instruments, which are largely aligned with material positions defined as level 3 within the Groups IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy Where differences between our independent valuation and managements valuation disclosure.
These include rarely traded debt were outside our thresholds, we performed additional testing over each variance to securities, and derivative instruments whose support our assessment of the appropriateness of the fair value.
valuation is dependent upon the correlation between certain interest rates or uncertainty surrounding the discount rate associated with complex collateral arrangements: Fair value adjustments made to derivatives including Funding Valuation Adjustments FVA and Credit Valuation Adjustments CVA relating to derivative counterparties whose credit spread is less readily able to be determined, and material product and deal specific adjustments on long dated derivative portfolios.
The manipulation of revenue recognition through the inappropriate valuation of these instruments given the level of management judgement involved.
Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that the fair value of financial instruments with higher risk characteristics and the recognition of related income is reasonable and in accordance with IFRS.
We highlighted the following matters to the Audit Committee: Complex-model dependent valuations were appropriate based on the output of our independent re-valuation, analysis of trade activity and peer benchmarking: The fair value estimates of hard-to-price portfolios appropriately reflected the Groups planned exit route and latest available pricing information: and Valuation adjustments applied on derivative portfolios for credit, funding and other risks were appropriate based on our assessment of trade activity for positions with common risk characteristics and analysis of market data.
We reported a judgemental difference in respect of the estimate involved in portfolio specific valuation adjustments, however this difference was not considered material.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee Accounting policies Note 12 on the financial statements 170 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Risk Our response to the risk Financial impact of structural reform The Independent Commission on Bankings With the support of our regulatory specialists we understood the implications of ICB for the Group and gained an understanding of managements process for implementing the ringICB structural reform required banks to fencing regulation.
We also examined the relevant regulatory correspondence to understand ensure certain activities and services are the impact and resolution of any significant findings that might impact financial reporting.
undertaken in a ring-fenced bank RFB by 1 January 2019.
The Groups implementation We challenged managements assessment of the accounting impacts of ICB, including the of structural reform resulted in the accounting treatment for transfers of businesses and legal entities and the appropriateness reorganisation of some of the legal entities in of the interpretations used on areas of judgement, including hedge accounting and pensions, the Group and the transfer of assets and as well as the valuation of the assets moved.
We analysed significant changes to financial liabilities between the RFB and other entities information arising from legal entity changes and assessed if they were in line with our of the group.
These transfers mainly related expectations.
to the transfer of customer loans 64.5 We tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls and performed substantive billion and customer deposits 74.6 billion procedures over the transfer of balances between legal entities.
Ring-fencing related transfers also included the transfer of We assessed the control environment for the impairment of value of investments based on the RBS Treasury function and related the post-ringfencing profit forecasts for each legal entity, considering the implications of balances to NatWest Bank plc from NatWest other changes across legal entities on forecasted profitability.
We tested controls over changes to the carrying value of investments and reserves to Accounting and reporting risks arising ensure they correctly reflected changes in ownership.
This included transfers and recycling of reserves, including merger reserves, cash flow hedge reserves and foreign include: exchange reserves.
We challenged the criteria applied to identified recycling events.
Appropriate application of accounting standards in recording the value of We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the Groups key controls over legal assets and liabilities transferred entity recharges, including the governance and implementation of changes to legal entity between legal entities, specifically with recharges due to ICB.
We tested adherence to internally agreed policies at a legal entity respect to fair value and hedge level, including assessments on the appropriateness of transfer pricing mark-ups applied.
accounting in the financial statements of the relevant entities: We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the Groups key controls over financial reporting as it relates to the implications of ICB and the relevant disclosures.
Future profitability estimates at a legal We assessed the quality of the disclosures including any need for additional notes.
At entity level, given the transfer of the Group level, we verified the transfers did not have an impact on overall activities and services, and the impact consolidation on the impairment assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and investments in subsidiaries: Accuracy of costs recorded in each legal entity given changes to the Groups approach to cost recharging and cost allocation: Impact of the restructuring of the Group and movement of legal entities including the carrying value of investments and reserves including foreign exchange reserves: and Accuracy of financial reporting given changes to the legal entity financial reporting closing processes to reflect changes in the Group.
Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that the impact of structural reform has been properly accounted for and disclosed in accordance with IFRS.
We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit Committee: Processes and controls in place over the transfer of balances including the measurement of assets transferred were designed and operated effectively: and A control deficiency was identified in relation to the foreign exchange reserves.
Additional procedures were performed and audit differences identified were not considered material.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee Accounting policies 171 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Risk Our response to the risk Pension valuation and retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a number of defined benefit We tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls over the actuarial assumptions setting process, the data inputs used in the actuarial calculation and the schemes which in total are significant in the measurement of the fair value of the schemes assets.
context of the overall balance sheet.
At 31 December 2018 the Group reported a net With the support of our actuarial specialists, we challenged the actuarial assumptions pension asset of 355 million 2017: 263 million by comparing them to our independently obtained sources and market practice.
We comprising 520 million of schemes in surplus challenged the impact on pension liabilities of changes in financial, demographic and and 165 million of schemes in deficit 2017: longevity assumptions over the year and whether these were in line with our own 392 million and 129 million, respectively.
net pension asset is sensitive to changes in the With the support of our valuation specialists, we challenged the appropriateness of key judgements and estimates, which include: managements valuation methodology including the judgements made in determining significant assumptions used in the valuation of complex and illiquid pension assets.
Actuarial assumptions and inputs including We tested the fair value of scheme assets by independently calculating fair value for a the discount rate, inflation, pension payment sample of the assets held.
Our sample included cash, equity instruments, derivative and longevity to determine the valuation of financial instruments and illiquid assets.
retirement benefit liabilities: In readiness for compliance with the requirements of the UK ring-fencing legislation, a Pricing inputs and calibrations for illiquid or Memorandum of Understanding MoU was entered into with the Trustees of RBS complex model-dependent valuations of Group Pension Fund.
We read the MoU, assessed the implications and challenged the certain investments held by the schemes: appropriateness of the accounting treatment in accordance with relevant accounting Quantification of trustees rights to unilaterally standards.
augment benefits Augmentation cap to With the support of our actuarial specialists, we challenged the estimation of the determine the recognition of surplus: and augmentation cap and GMP equalisation adjustments including the inputs used in the Equalisation adjustments following the recent calculation.
We also assessed the methodology and judgements made in calculating court ruling in respect of Guaranteed these estimates and the associated accounting treatment in accordance with IAS 19 Minimum Pension GMP and IFRIC 14.
We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures made in the financial statements, including the appropriateness of the key assumptions and sensitivities disclosed.
Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that the valuation and disclosure of the retirement benefit obligations are reasonable and in accordance with IFRS.
We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit Committee: Our benchmarking of key actuarial assumptions including the discount rate, inflation, mortality and pension payments concluded that assumptions tested were within a reasonable range: Independent valuation of a sample of pension assets identified no material differences: and Managements estimate of the impact of the GMP liability was materially consistent with our independent estimate using our own model.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee Accounting policies Note 5 on the financial statements Risk Our response to the risk IT systems and controls impacting financial reporting The IT environment is complex and pervasive to We assessed and challenged the design and operating effectiveness of IT controls over the operations of the Group due to the large the applications, operating systems and databases that are relevant to financial volume of transactions processed in numerous reporting.
locations daily and the reliance on automated and IT dependent manual controls.
Appropriate We assessed automated controls within business processes and the reliability of IT controls are required to ensure that relevant reports used as part of a manual control.
This included challenging the integrity applications process data as expected and that of system interfaces, the completeness and accuracy of data feeds, automated changes are made in an appropriate manner.
calculations and specific input controls.
Such controls contribute to mitigating the risk of We assessed and challenged system migrations and related technology changes potential fraud or errors as a result of changes resulting from transformation programmes and the implementation of ICB that were to applications and data.
Our audit approach relies upon IT applications Where we identified systems outsourced to third party service providers we challenged and the related control environment including: IT general controls through the relevant Service Organisation Controls Reports User access management across application, produced by third parties and tested assessed required complementary controls database and operating systems: performed by the Group.
Changes to the IT environment, including Where control deficiencies were identified, we tested remediation activities performed by transformation that changes the IT landscape: management and compensating controls in place and assessed where necessary to IT operational controls: mitigate any residual risk.
IT application or IT dependent controls: and Evaluation of IT control environment at third party service providers.
172 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Key observations communicated to the Group Audit Committee We are satisfied that IT controls relevant to financial reporting operated effectively at year-end.
We highlighted the following matters to the Group Audit Committee: Instances of user access related deficiencies were identified.
Compensating controls were tested or alternate procedures were performed: and Exceptions were reported in some Service Organisation Controls Reports provided by third parties including Cloud providers.
We tested compensating controls with no issues noted.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts Report of the Group Audit Committee Accounting policies In the prior year, our auditors report included key audit matters in relation to hedge effectiveness testing, including the impact on non-interest income, and provision for restructuring costs.
In 2018, given materiality and our assessment of the risk, these were not considered key audit matters.
An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each component of the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account the size and risk profile of the component and its activities, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each component.
The scoping below is consistent with the prior year.
Component Scope Key locations UK Personal & Business Banking Full United Kingdom Ulster Bank RoI Specific Republic of Ireland Commercial Banking Full United Kingdom Private Banking Specific United Kingdom RBS International Specific Channel Islands NatWest Markets Full United Kingdom, United States, and Singapore Central items, Treasury and Services Full United Kingdom, India, Poland The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
We considered total assets, total equity and the absolute value of the amounts in the income statement meaning the magnitude of the amounts without regard to their positive or negative value to verify we had appropriate overall coverage on the income statement.
Full scope 1 Specific scope 2 Other procedures 3 Total Total assets 84% 15% 1% 100% Total equity 59% 39% 2% 100% Absolute value of the income statement 88% 8% 4% 100% The audit scope of Specific scope components may not have included testing of all significant accounts within the component.
However the testing will have contributed to the total coverage of significant accounts tested for the overall Group.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken in each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors in the United Kingdom or from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
The primary audit engagement team interacted regularly with the component audit teams where appropriate throughout the course of the audit, which included holding planning meetings, maintaining regular communications on the status of the audits, reviewing key working papers and taking responsibility for the scope and direction of the audit process.
The primary audit engagement team also participated in meetings with key management personnel in the components and, for certain overseas locations, implemented a programme of planned visits.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, as well as meeting with local management.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Notes 1 Full scope: audit procedures on all significant accounts 2 Specific scope: audit procedures on selected accounts 3 Other procedures: considered in analytical procedures Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
173 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Materiality The magnitude of omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group and parent company to be 210 million 2017 materiality: 300 million, which is 5% of Group profit before tax 2017 materiality basis was equity and 0.6% of equity of the parent company.
As the Group has been profitable for the past two years, we changed our basis of materiality to profit before tax.
This measure is consistent with the wider industry and is the standard for listed and regulated entities and we believe it reflects the most useful measure for users of the financial statements.
The materiality of the parent company is based on equity as we consider this to be the most appropriate factor to the users of the financial statements.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and corrected misstatements exceed materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely 100 million 2017: 150 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage which is at the lowest end of the range of our audit methodology based on various considerations including the past history of misstatements, the effectiveness of the control environment and other factors affecting the entity and its financial reporting.
Audit work of component teams for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component team is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated by the primary audit engagement team to components was between 75 million and 40 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered to be clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Group Audit Committee that we would report to them all corrected and uncorrected audit misstatements in excess of 10 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative and qualitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report and Accounts, including the Strategic Report Governance, Business review, Capital and risk management, Risk Factors, Shareholder Information, and Important addresses other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Group Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Group Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Report of the directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Report of the directors have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Report of the directors.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit 174 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for the implementation of such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements.
We determined that the most significant are: The regulations, licence conditions and supervisory requirements of the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
Companies Act 2006 Financial Reporting Council FRC and the UK Corporate Governance Code Sarbanes Oxley Act SOX Tax Legislation governed by HM Revenue and Customs We understood how the Group is complying with those frameworks by reviewing the RBS Policy Framework, holding discussions with the Groups general counsel, external counsel compliance group, regulatory group, internal audit, amongst others.
We inquired as to any known instances of non-compliance or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations.
We also reviewed the Groups Complaints Management Policy and Whistleblowing Policy.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by holding discussions with senior management, including the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Head of Internal Audit and Group Audit Committee Chairman.
We also reviewed the Groups fraud-related policies and mandates of different governance forums assessing fraud.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved inquiring of key management, reviewing the key policies and reports on the aforementioned regulatory frameworks as well as reviewing the correspondence exchanged with the Regulators.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address Following the recommendation of the Group Audit Committee we were appointed by the Group at its annual general meeting on 4 May 2016 to audit the financial statements of the Group for the period ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 3 years, covering periods from our appointment through 31 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the parent company in conducting the audit The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Group Audit Committee Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Jonathan Bourne Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 14 February 2019 Note: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the RBS web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions 175
