INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RSA INSURANCE GROUP PLC 1 Our opinion is unmodi ed Basis for opinion We have audited the financial statements of RSA Insurance Group We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained of comprehensive income, consolidated and parent company is a suf cient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is statement of changes in equity, consolidated and parent company consistent with our report to the audit committee.
statement of financial position, the consolidated and parent company We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders of the Company statement of cash ows and the related notes, including the accounting at the Annual General Meeting held on 13 May 2013.
The period of policies in note 4. total uninterrupted engagement is for the six financial years ended In our opinion: 31 December 2018.
We have ful lled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that 2018 and of the Groups pro t for the year then ended: standard were provided.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Overview accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Materiality: 35m 2017: 35m group financial statements as the Parent Company financial statements have been properly 0.5% 2017: 0.5% of Net Earned Premium a whole prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as Coverage 97% 2017: 97% of Net Earned Premium applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Event driven New: The impact of uncertainties S due to the UK exiting the European the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Union on our audit Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Recurring risks of the Valuation of Insurance Liabilities WX Group IT systems and control environment WX Valuation of fide ned bene t pension WX schemes Valuation of deferred tax assets WX Recurring risks of the Recoverability of Parent companys WX Parent investment in subsidiaries 98 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 2.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signi cance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most signi cant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identi ed by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response The impact of Unprecedented levels of uncertainty We developed a standardised rm-wide approach to the consideration of uncertainties due All audits assess and challenge the the uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning and performing our audits.
to the UK exiting reasonableness of estimates, in particular as Our procedures included: the European Union described in valuation of insurance liabilities, Our Brexit knowledge We considered the directors assessment on our audit valuation of pensions and post-retirement of Brexit-related sources of risk for the Groups business and financial Refer to pages 40 to 43 obligations and valuation of deferred tax resources compared with our own understanding of the risks.
We principal risks and assets below, and related disclosures and the considered the directors plans to take action to mitigate the risks.
page 40 viability appropriateness of the going concern basis of statement.
preparation of the financial statements.
All of these Sensitivity analysis When addressing valuation of insurance liabilities, depend on assessments of the future economic valuation of pensions and post-retirement obligations, valuation of environment and the Groups future prospects deferred tax assets, and other areas that depend on forecasts, we and performance.
compared the directors sensitivity analysis to our assessment of the full range of reasonably possible, known adverse scenarios resulting from In addition, we are required to consider the other Brexit uncertainty and, where forecast cash ows are required to be information presented in the Annual Report discounted, considered adjustments to discount rates for the level of including the principal risks disclosure and the remaining uncertainty.
viability statement and to consider the directors statement that the annual report and financial Assessing transparency As well as assessing individual disclosures statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and as part of our procedures on valuation of insurance liabilities, valuation understandable and provides the information of pensions and post-retirement obligations and valuation of deferred necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups tax assets we considered all of the Brexit related disclosures together, position and performance, business model including those in the strategic report, comparing the overall picture and strategy.
against our understanding of the risks.
Brexit is one of the most signi cant economic Our results events for the UK and at the date of this report As reported under valuation of insurance liabilities, valuation of pensions its effects are subject to unprecedented levels and post-retirement obligations and valuation of deferred tax assets, we of uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range found the resulting estimates and related disclosures of insurance liabilities, of possible effects unknown.
pensions and post-retirement obligations and deferred tax assets and disclosures in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
99 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RSA INSURANCE GROUP PLC CONTINUED The risk Our response Valuation of Subjective valuation Our procedures included: insurance liabilities Insurance liabilities represent the single largest Controls design and observation: Evaluation of the governance Insurance contract liability for the Group.
Valuation of these liabilities around the overall Group reserving process, including the scrutiny liabilities 2018: is highly judgmental because it requires a number applied by the Local, Regional and Group Reserving committees, 9,468 million gross, of assumptions to be made with high estimation as well as Group level actuarial reviews.
We assessed quali cations and 7,936 million net: 2017: uncertainty such as loss ratios, estimates of the experience of those responsible and examined the output of the reviews 9,477 million gross, frequency and severity of claims and, where to assess the scope and depth of these processes.
Our evaluation of 7,954 million net, appropriate, the discount rates for longer tail the methodologies and key assumptions for the most signi cant and including provision for classes of business, by territory and line of subjective classes of business enabled us to assess the quality of losses and loss business.
The determination and application of the challenge applied through the Groups reserving process.
adjustment expenses methodology and performance of the calculations are also complex.
In addition, the determination Independent re-performance: Independent re-projection of the gross Refer to page 57 Audit of the valuation of individual large losses can be and net reserve balances using our own models for certain classes of Committee Report, subjective as it is based on estimated settlement business.
The determination of which classes to re-project was based on page 113 accounting amounts which are inherently uncertain, risk assessment and consideration of the evidence available from other policy and pages 150 particularly for recently reported claims.
to 154 financial disclosures A margin is added to the actuarial best estimate of Sector experience and Benchmarking: Comparison of assumptions, insurance liabilities to make allowance for speci c reserving methodologies and estimates of losses to expectations based risks and uncertainties that are not speci cally on the Groups historical experience, current trends, externally-derived allowed for in establishing the actuarial best data and benchmarking against industry trends including information estimate.
The appropriate margin to recognise is relating to forthcoming legislation that may affect claims settlement a subjective judgement and estimate taken by speed or amount.
the directors, based on the perceived uncertainty Sensitivity analysis: Evaluation of sensitivity analysis over key and potential for volatility in the underlying claims.
judgements and assumptions, such as large claims, the discount Certain lines of business have greater inherent rates for longer tail classes of business and Periodic Payment uncertainty, for example those where claims Order projections.
emerge more slowly over time, or where there is Margin evaluation: Evaluation of the appropriateness of the Reserve greater variability in claim settlement amounts and Committees recommended margin to be applied to the actuarial best potential exposure to large losses due to effect of estimate.
In order to do this we assessed the Directors approach to, uncertain or unknown future events.
This includes and analysis performed, in setting the margin with respect to recognised Abuse, Deafness classes: UK Professional and actuarial methods.
In particular we considered the allowance for Financial Risk Classes: the Danish Workers uncertainties inherent in the data and assumptions in developing the Compensation class: the Swedish Personal actuarial best estimate through inquiry with the Directors and with Accident classes: the Canadian General Liability respect to our understanding of any changes in Groups risks and our class: and classes of business affected by own sector experience of approaches to setting the margin and the level emerging industry issues such as the impact of margin held by the Groups peers.
of Periodic Payment Orders which are akin to annuities with longevity and in ation risk on UK Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the groups motor business and associated reinsurance disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the insurance liabilities to recoveries in relation to these areas.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that the valuation of insurance liabilities has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole and possibly many times that amount.
The financial statements note 37 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
100 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The risk Our response Valuation of Data capture In addition to the above we performed procedures to assess the insurance liabilities The valuation of insurance liabilities depends on completeness and accuracy of the data used in the calculations to continued complete and accurate data about the volume, estimate insurance liabilities: Insurance contract amount and pattern of current and historical Control observation and operation: Evaluation and testing of liabilities 2018: claims since they are often used to form key controls designed to ensure the integrity of the data used in the 9,468 million gross, expectations about future claims.
If the data actuarial reserving process including both current and prior year case 7,936 million net: 2017: used in calculating insurance liabilities, or for reserve data.
The controls included reconciliations between data in the 9,477 million gross, forming judgements over key assumptions, is not actuarial reserving systems and data in the policy administration systems.
7,954 million net, complete and accurate then material impacts on We tested controls through inspecting or re-performing the Groups including provision for the valuation of insurance liabilities may arise.
losses and loss adjustment expenses In addition, we tested the operation of controls over the valuation of individual claims reserves, such as large loss review controls, internal Refer to page 57 Audit peer reviews and claims approvals.
We assessed whether such controls Committee Report, were performed in line with the Groups policies and with reference to page 113 accounting underlying claims data.
policy and pages 150 to 154 financial Data comparisons: We inspected reconciliations between the claims disclosures.
data recorded in the policy administration systems and the data used in the actuarial reserving calculations to ensure the integrity of the data used in the actuarial reserving process.
Test of detail: We also compared samples of claims case reserves, including large loss reserves, to appropriate documentation, such as reports from loss adjusters in order to test the valuation of individual claims reserves, particularly where such claims may be subject to recovery under reinsurance arrangements.
Our results We found the valuation of the insurance liabilities to be acceptable 2017 result: acceptable.
IT systems and Processing errors With the assistance of our own IT audit specialists, our procedures included: control environment Many financial reporting controls depend on the Controls design and observation: Testing general IT controls around Refer to page 58 correct functioning of operational and financial system access, change management and computer operations within Group Audit IT systems.
If these systems or controls fail, speci c applications pertinent to the financial statements by assessing if Committee Report.
a signi cant risk of error in reported financial appropriate policies are in place and adhered to by inspecting supporting information can arise from the failure to transfer evidence.
Where general IT controls are not operating effectively, we data appropriately between systems or addressed the increased risk of financial statement misstatement by inappropriate changes being made to financial extending the scope of our work.
This included assessing the operation data or systems.
of controls over changes or transactions being recorded in the systems This is an area of signi cant risk in our audit due to and testing manual compensating controls, such as reconciliations the complexity of the IT infrastructure, particularly between systems and other information sources, through rein the UK and Scandinavia, where there are legacy performance or inspection.
systems which require increased manual inputs, Extended scope: Where general IT controls and compensating manual relative to more automated processes.
controls did not operate to mitigate a risk, we performed additional substantive testing, such as using extended sample sizes and performing data analysis routines over impacted accounts to test the integrity of the transactional level data that is owing into the Group financial statements.
Our results Our testing identi ed fide ciencies in the design and operation of controls.
As a result we expanded the extent of our detailed testing over and above that originally planned, and this work was completed satisfactorily 2017 result: Our testing identi ed fide ciencies in the design and operation of controls.
As a result we expanded the extent of our detailed testing over and above that originally planned, and this work was completed satisfactorily.
101 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RSA INSURANCE GROUP PLC CONTINUED The risk Our response Valuation of Subjective valuation With the assistance of our own pension actuarial specialists, our pensions and Small changes in the assumptions and estimates procedures included: post-retirement used can have signi cant effect on the valuation Membership data: Compared the data received from the third party obligations of the Groups pension obligations and therefore administrator of the pension scheme to the data sent to the third party 2018: 7,974 million, the amount of the pension and post retirement external expert who valued the pension obligation.
2017: 8,878 million obligations and the Groups financial position.
Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the key assumptions such Refer to page 58 The valuation of fide ned bene t pension as discount rate, in ation rate and life expectancy against externally Group Audit obligations is dependent upon complete and derived data.
Committee Report, accurate data about the members of the page 115 accounting pension scheme.
Assessing valuers credentials: Evaluating the Groups external policy and pages 155 valuers competence, objectivity, capability and scope of work.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our to 160 financial risk assessment, we determined that the pensions Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures.
and post-retirement obligations has a high degree disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the fide ned pension obligation of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of to these assumptions.
reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality Our results for the financial statements as a whole and We found the valuation of the pension and post retirement obligations to be possibly many times that amount.
The financial acceptable 2017 result: acceptable.
statements note 38 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
Valuation of Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: deferred tax assets The recoverability of the recognised deferred tax Historical comparisons and our sector experience: Comparing 2018: 234 million: asset is dependent on the future pro tability of the the expected growth rates to the Groups approved operating plan 2017: 276 million UK business, and RSAI plc as the taxable legal and assessing the accuracy of that forecasting process in the past.
There is inherent uncertainty Refer to page 58 We considered whether projected margins are achievable with reference involved in developing the operational plan upon Group Audit to the businesss recent performance and operating plans, as well as our which forecast future taxable pro ts are based.
Committee Report, own industry knowledge.
These forecasts determine the extent to which page 115 accounting deferred tax assets are or are not recognised.
Sensitivity analysis: Sensitivity analysis of taxable pro ts to policy and pages 146 assumptions such as the Combined Operating Ratio.
to 147 financial The effect of these matters is that, as part of disclosures.
our risk assessment, we determined that the Own tax expertise: With the support of our own tax specialists and recoverable amount of deferred tax assets has a their knowledge of tax legislation, we also assessed the extent to which high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a projected pro ts were taxable, in particular the Groups assumptions potential range of reasonable outcomes greater about how accumulated tax losses and other associated tax attributes than our materiality for the financial statements can be utilized within the group against the UK business, and RSAI plc as a whole.
The financial statements note 29 as the taxable legal entity, in particular.
disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
Assessing transparency: Assessing adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the assumptions and sensitivity supporting the deferred tax asset valuation and recognition.
Our results As a result of our work we found the level of deferred tax assets recognised to be acceptable 2017 result: acceptable.
Recoverability of Subjective valuation Our procedures included: parent companys The parent companys holds its investments in Comparing valuations: We compared the market value of the Group, investment in subsidiaries at fair value, representing 66% 2017: used as the base for the Companys valuation, to an independent source subsidiaries 72% of the companys total assets.
For the most of market capitalisation.
2018: 4,476 million, signi cant subsidiary, fair value is based on the 2017: 5,765 million market value of the Group, after adjusting for Historical comparisons: In respect of the adjusting items, we certain items.
Whilst there is not a high degree compared the expected cash ows to the Groups operating plan, and Refer to page 172 of subjectivity, the estimation of some of the considered the historical accuracy of previous projections.
accounting policy, adjusting items is dependent on assumptions of Investments in Sector experience: With the support of our own valuation specialists, future cash ows discounted to present value.
Subsidiaries and we independently recalculated the weighted average cost of capital used page 174 financial to discount the cash ows to determine the value of the adjusting items.
Our results: We found the assessment of the recoverability of the parent companys investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2017 result: acceptable.
102 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 3.
Our application of materiality and an Net Earned Premium Group materiality 6,537m 2017: 6,605m 35m 2017: 35m overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set 35m Whole financial statements at 35m 2017: 35m determined with reference to a benchmark materiality 2017: 35m of Net Earned Premiums of 6,537m 2017: 6,605m, of which 28m it represents 0.5% 2017: 0.5%.
We continue to believe that the Range of materiality at four benchmark of net earned premiums is a fair re ection of revenue from components 15m to 28m the Groups operations as it is not subject to the volatility arising from 2017: 15m to 28m multi-year insurance contracts that net written premium would be.
We have not considered pro t before tax to be a suitable benchmark due to historical volatility in this metric.
1.7m Misstatements reported to the Net Earned Premium Materiality for the Parent company financial statements as a whole audit committee 2017: 1.75m Group materiality was set at 31.5m 2017: 31.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Net Assets and chosen to be lower than materiality for the group financial statements as a whole.
It represents 0.5% of the Net Earned Premium Insurance Contract stated benchmark 2017: 0.5%.
Liabilities We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identi ed misstatements exceeding 1.7m, in addition to other identi ed misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the groups nine 2017: nine reporting components, we subjected 97% 98% four 2017: four, being those located within the UK, Ireland, Canada 2017: 97% 2017: 98% and Scandinavia, to full scope audits for group purposes and one 2017: one, being the Groups central functions, to speci ed riskfocused audit procedures.
The latter was not individually nancially 97 98 signi cant enough to require a full scope audit for group purposes, but did present speci c individual risks that needed to be addressed.
97 98 As such, speci ed risk-focused procedures were performed on investments, treasury and reinsurance, which included agreeing financial information to supporting documentation.
Within the Total Assets Group profit before Tax Scandinavia reporting component, audits were performed by local audit teams in Denmark, Sweden and Norway.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the 13 percentages illustrated opposite.
For the remaining components 23 34 20 we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine 93% 89% our assessment that there were no signi cant risks of material 2017: 98% 2017: 93% misstatement within these.
64 The Group team instructed component auditors as to the signi cant 80 areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and 69 70 the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component materialitys, which ranged from 15m to 28m 2017: 15m to 28m, having regard to the mix of size and risk pro le of the 2018 2017 Group across the components.
All 2017: all of the audits of reporting Full scope for group audit purposes components were performed by the component auditors.
specified risk-focused audit procedures Residual components The Group audit team visited four 2017: four component locations, being those in the UK, Ireland, Canada and Denmark 2017: UK, Ireland, Canada and Denmark to assess the audit risk and planned audit approach.
The work on four of the nine components 2017: four of the nine components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and at these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
103 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF RSA INSURANCE GROUP PLC CONTINUED 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly uncertainties that could have cast signi cant doubt over their ability stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
we have not identi ed material misstatements in the other information.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as Strategic report and directors report subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with Based solely on our work on the other information: judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report we have not identi ed material misstatements in the strategic report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue and the directors report: in operation.
in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the year is consistent with the financial statements: and inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Companys the Companies Act 2006. financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period.
The risks that we considered most likely to adversely Directors remuneration report affect the Groups and Companys available financial resources over In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to this period were: be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the adverse insurance reserves development: Companies Act 2006. a deterioration in claims experience, potentially caused by market Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability wide catastrophe event s : Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements a deterioration in the valuation of the Groups investments arising audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: from a signi cant change in the economic environment: and the directors con rmation within the viability statement page 40 an increase in the Groups net pension liability.
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business As these were risks that could potentially cast signi cant doubt model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: on the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we considered sensitivities over the level of available financial the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking account how they are being managed and mitigated: and of reasonably possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could the directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have arise from these risks individually and collectively and evaluated the assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have achievability of the actions the Directors consider they would take to done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and improve the position should the risks materialise.
We also considered their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as the impact that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet of Brexit and the impact on the economic environment, which could its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, result in a rapid reduction in available financial resources.
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary quali cations or assumptions.
Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
the directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only uncertainties that may cast signi cant doubt over the Group and the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events from the date of approval of the financial statements: or may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 92 report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
104 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Corporate governance disclosures Irregularities ability to detect We are required to report to you if: We identi ed areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements through we have identi ed material inconsistencies between the knowledge discussion with the directors and other management as required we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors by auditing standards, and from inspection of the groups regulatory statement that they consider that the annual report and financial and legal correspondence.
We communicated identi ed laws and statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or from the group to component audit teams of relevant laws and the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit regulations identi ed at group level.
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial by us to the Audit Committee statements varies considerably.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Firstly, the group is subject to laws and regulations that directly Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed by the including related companies legislation and taxation legislation, we Listing Rules for our review.
assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as We have nothing to report in these respects.
part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Secondly, the group is subject to many other laws and regulations 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material on which we are required to report by exception effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the in our opinion: groups licence to operate.
We identi ed the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: regulatory capital and liquidity and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent certain aspects of company legislation recognising the financial and Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received regulated nature of the groups activities.
Auditing standards limit the from branches not visited by us: or required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws the parent Company financial statements and the part of the and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other management and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited with the accounting records and returns: or procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable not made: or risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements we have not received all the information and explanations we require in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned for our audit.
and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and We have nothing to report in these respects.
regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions re ected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited 7.
Respective responsibilities procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, Directors responsibilities as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 97, the of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
including being satis ed that they give a true and fair view: such internal We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, whom we owe our responsibilities matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the but to do so.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Auditors responsibilities in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities Daniel Cazeaux Senior Statutory Auditor or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor could reasonably be expected to in uence the economic decisions of Chartered Accountants users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
15 Canada Square A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs London E14 5GL website at www.
