FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE SAGE GROUP PLC Opinion In our opinion: The Sage Group plcs Group financial statements and parent Company financial statements the financial statements give atrue and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion theconsolidated financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
We have audited the financial statements of The Sage Group plc which comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated balance sheet as at 30 September 2018 Company balance sheet as at 30 September 2018 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended Company accounting policies Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 7 to the financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 18 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland UnitedKingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on page 60 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 60 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of theprincipal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency orliquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 129 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 68 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 135 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE SAGE GROUP PLC CONTINUED they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall dueover the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications orassumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Key audit Revenue recognition matters Revenue Recognition disclosures on the expected impact of the initial application of IFRS 15 [New in 2018] Allocation of goodwill arising from the acquisition of Intacct and recoverability of goodwill allocated to the Intacct CGU [New in 2018] Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 5 components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 100% of adjusted Profit before tax, 89% of Revenue and 94% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 20.4m which represents 5% of adjusted Profit before tax.
Profit before tax and non-recurring items as defined in the Our application of materiality section of this report Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit and Risk Committee Revenue recognition We performed the procedures below at full and specific scope audit locations Based on the with significant revenue streams.
We highlight any significant variations in these procedures Refer to the Audit and procedures between locations.
performed, we Risk Committee Report didnot identify page 95 : and Notes 2.1 We performed walkthroughs of each significant class of revenue transactions any evidence and 3.1 of the Group and assessed the design effectiveness of key controls.
For 2 components we ofmaterial financial statements tested the operating effectiveness of controls as this was identified as the misstatement most efficient audit approach.
The Group has reported inthe revenue We assessed managements determination of whether the nature of the revenues of 1,846m recognised in Groups products and services results in the transfer of risk and reward at a FY17: 1,715m.
We theyear nor point in time or over a period of time.
This included the assessment of new identified 2 specific risks inamounts orone-off transactions.
of fraud and error in deferredat 30 For products and services where risks and rewards are transferred over a respect of inappropriate September 2018. period of time, we tested a sample of transactions to ensure the amount revenue recognition ofrevenue recognised in the year was accurately calculated based on the given the nature of the state of completion of the contract.
As part of this testing we also tested Groups products and theappropriateness of the deferred revenue at the balance sheet date.
services as follows: For bundled products, we tested on a sample basis, that 1 the calculation Inappropriate ofthe fair value attributed to each element of the bundle was reasonable, timingof revenue and 2 that the allocation of any discount was consistent with the relative recognition, fairvalue of each element of the bundle.
includingcut-off We performed other substantive, transactional testing and analytical anddeferral: and: procedures to validate the recognition of revenue throughout the year.
Inappropriate Wherepracticable, at component level we performed testing over full measurement of populations of transactions using data analysis.
revenue attributed For revenue recorded through journal entries outside of normal business toproducts and processes, we performed testing to establish whether a service had been services provided.
provided or a sale had occurred in the financial year to support the revenuerecognised.
We have updated Our procedures to assess the recoverability of trade receivables included therisk description in assessment of whether the provision against, or write off of, impacted our current year to simplify view as to the initial recognition of the related revenue.
and provide greater clarity over the nature We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures for the accounting ofthe risk.
policies for revenue recognition in notes 1 and 3.1 respectively.
There is no change in The full and specific scope audit locations with significant revenue streams the risk profile in the 8components where we performed the audit procedures set out above current year.
covered 89% of the Groups revenue.
We also performed review procedures in 3 locations, which covered a further 4% of the Groups revenue.
136 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key observations communicated to the Audit Risk Our response to the risk and Risk Committee Revenue recognition Our procedures in respect of the estimated impact of the initial adoption of Based on the disclosures on the IFRS15 included: procedures expected impact of the performed, the We appraised the revisions to the Groups revenue recognition initial application of disclosure of the accountingpolicy under IFRS 15, including both its technical IFRS 15 [New in 2018] estimated impact appropriateness and its completeness in reflecting the diversity was sufficiently Refer to the Audit and of the Groups products and services: documented and Risk Committee Report We evaluated the impact analysis and the accounting judgements made substantiated.
The page 95 : and Note 1 of based on the characteristics of the Groups products and their delivery disclosure in note 1 the Group financial tocustomers.
of the impact of statements We assessed the appropriateness of the methods used to determine the transition to IFRS 15 estimated impact of the initial application of IFRS 15.
The Group is adopting is appropriate.
We instructed component audit teams in all full and specific scope locations IFRS 15 Revenue from with significant revenue streams eight locations, to perform: Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 audit procedures on a sample basis to test the accuracy and completeness from 1 October 2018 and of local managements analysis of product types, contract terms and sales will apply the cumulative channel mechanisms: and retrospective method to substantive testing to support the quantitive information disclosed in the recognise the effect of consolidated financial statements.
the transition in equity We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures on the estimated at this date.
impact of the initial application of IFRS 15 set out in note 1.
The application of IFRS15 is complex and involves management judgement and estimation.
For Sage this complexity is increased as a result of diversity in products and services offered by the Group, and also in ways of selling these.
Disclosure is required of the expected impact of IFRS 15 upon adoption on 1 October 2018.
Itexpects that initial recognition will lead to an increase in retained earnings under equity ofapproximately 23m after accounting for deferred taxes as of 1October 2018.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 137 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE SAGE GROUP PLC CONTINUED Key observations communicated to the Audit Risk Our response to the risk and Risk Committee Allocation of goodwill Allocation of goodwill arising from the acquisition of Intacct We concluded that: arising from the We challenged management around the appropriateness of the approach the methodology acquisition of Intacct taken to allocate goodwill arising from the acquisition of Intacct to other applied is and recoverability of CGUs.
Specifically: reasonable goodwill allocated to andwe have We assessed managements basis for allocating goodwill to CGUs or groups the North America notidentified any of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Intacct cash generating evidence that the We reviewed the board papers and public pronouncements in respect unit [New in 2018] allocation of the ofthis matter and discussed with members of the Board in order to Refer to the Audit and Intacct goodwill understand the timing and maturity of the plan to internationalise Risk Committee Report ismaterially theIntacct product.
page 96 : and Note 6.1 incorrect based We evaluated the appropriateness of the discounted cashflows technique of the Group financial on the forecasts used to allocate goodwill and tested the integrity of the model used.
statements and discount We assessed the basis for key underlying assumptions for the cashflows rateapplied: During the year, 42m included in the allocation model for the UKI CGU, including levels of new the allocation ofthe 508m of customer acquisition, average customer values and net customer churn ofthe Intacct goodwillthat arose rates.
We considered their appropriateness compared to the performance goodwill is onthe acquisition of of the Groups existing North America business and industry data for however highly Intacct on 3 August 2017 thismarket.
sensitive to key has been allocated to With assistance from EY valuation specialists, we evaluated the assumptions: and other cash generating reasonableness of the discount rate applied in the allocation model, we agree with units CGUs, including withspecific consideration of the risk of a new product launch in the UK.
managements 36m to the UKI CGU.
Recoverability of North America Intacct goodwill conclusion that We focused on this no impairment of We audited managements estimation of the recoverable value of the Intacct goodwill NorthAmerica Intacct CGU.
Specifically: Due to the judgment isrequired in the involved in the We tested the methodology applied in the value in use calculation as current year allocation exercise compared to the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, including andnoted that and because of the the appropriateness of the period of the forecast, and the mathematical the allocation risk of management accuracy of managements model.
exercise had no bias given the low We have evaluated managements forecasting for Intacct since acquisition impact on this level of headroom through comparison of current year performance to forecast.
when comparing Where the forecasts differed from the original acquisition plan used in the value in use to net We concur with purchase price allocation, we assessed for reasonableness the explanations assets of the North management that provided by management.
America Intacct additional sensitivity We evaluated the key underlying assumptions used in the valuation CGU:and disclosures are including cash flow forecasts, discounts rates and long term growth rates.
the directors required in note We considered evidence available to support these assumptions and their assessment of this 6.1of the Group consistency with findings from other areas of our audit.
value in use involves financial statements With assistance from EY valuation specialists, we performed audit judgement about the on the basis that procedures on the reasonableness of the discount rates and long term future performance areasonably growth rates used by management, including comparison to economic ofthe newly acquired possibly change in andindustry forecasts where appropriate.
business and the assumptions would We performed downside sensitivity analyses on key assumptions, including discount rates result in a material combinations thereof, in the model to understand the parameters that, appliedto future impairment of should they arise, cause an impairment of goodwill.
goodwill in the We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures provided in Intacct Cash note6.1 in the Group financial statements, in particular the disclosure of Generating Unit.
forecast period used in the value in use calculation and additional .
The entire goodwill balance that arose from the acquisition of Intacct wassubject to full scope audit procedures by the Primary audit team.
In the prior year, the key audit matters included within our auditors report included risks in relation to the Intacct acquisition provisional value of acquired intangible assets: carrying value of goodwill and classification of restructuring costs as nonrecurring, as a result of the Groups business transformation.
In the current year, these risks are no longer assessed as key audit matters on the basis that there were no significant adjustments in the finalisation of the purchase price allocation for Intacct, with the exception of the Intacct cash generating unit CGU there is sufficient headroom within the goodwill testing for the Groups other CGUs and no business transformation costs are reported as non-recurring in the year.
138 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our auditscope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as prior year external audit findings and recent Internal Audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 21 reporting components of the Group, we selected 11 components covering entities within United Kingdom and Ireland, France, North America, Spain, Germany, Brazil and South Africa which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 11 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining five components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
For the remaining 10 components, audit procedures were undertaken as set out in note 4 below to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
2018 2017 % Group % Group adjusted Profit % Group adjusted Profit % Group Reporting components Number before tax Revenue See note Number before tax Revenue Full scope 6 81% 60% 1,2 6 68% 59% Specific scope 5 19% 29% 2,3 5 30% 30% Full and specific scope coverage 11 100% 89% 11 98% 89% Remaining components 10 0% 11% 4 13 2% 11% Total Reporting components 21 100% 100% 24 100% 100% 1 Three of the six full scope components relate to the parent Company and other corporate entities whose activities include the Groups treasury management and consolidation adjustments.
The Group audit risk in relation to the allocation of goodwill arising from Intacct and recoverability ofgoodwill allocated to the Intacct CGU was subject to audit procedures by the Primary audit team on the entire balance.
2 The Group audit risk in relation to revenue recognition was subject to full audit procedures at each of the full and specific scope locations with significant revenue streams.
3 The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts selected for testing by the Primary audit team.
4 The remaining 10 components contributed a net 0 % of adjusted Profit before tax and the individual contribution of these components ranged from3% to 4 % of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax.
We instructed one component team to undertake specified procedures over certain cash balances and trade and other payables at one location and another component team to undertake specified procedures over trade receivables.
For three components, including Asia, Australia and Middle East, the Primary audit team performed review scope procedures.
For the remaining components, the Primary audit team performed other procedures, including overall analytical review procedures and testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Profit before tax and non-recurring items as defined in the Our application of materiality section of this report.
Changes from the prior year The change in the total number of reporting components from 24 to 21 reflects the disposal of the North America payments business, the combination of Singapore and Malaysia into one component, and the removal of Sage Technologies as a separate component.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each ofthe components by us, as the Primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the six full scope components, audit procedures were performed on three of these directly bythe Primary audit team and three by component audit teams.
For the five specific scope components, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor, or another Group audit partner, would visit all full and selected specific scope audit locations.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken at least once by the primary audit team to the component teams in the UK, France, Brazil, Spain, North America and South Africa.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, reviewing relevant key audit working papers on the Group risk areas, and meeting with local management to discuss the components business performance and matters relating to the local finance organisation including the internal financial control environment.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 139 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE SAGE GROUP PLC CONTINUED appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed relevant key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the Starting aggregate, could reasonably be expected Total profit before tax of 398m basis toinfluence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be20.4 million 2017: 21.4million, which Adjustments for non-recurring items: is5% 2017: 5% of Profit before tax for both continuing and discontinued operations Loss on disposal of subsidiary 1m adjusted for non-recurring items reported by Adjustments Litigation costs 4m the Group.
We believe that Profit before tax for both continuing and discontinued operations Restructuring and exit costs 5m adjusted for non-recurring items provides uswith the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Non-recurring items are set out in Note 3.6 ofthe Groups financial statements.
Totals 408m Materiality Materiality of 20.4m 5% of materaility basis During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and the only change in the final materiality from our original assessment at planning was to reflect the actual reported performance of the Group in the year.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be 28.7 million 2017: 28.9 million, which is 1% 2017: 1% of equity.
Equityis an appropriate basis to determine materiality.
Any balances in the parent Company financial statements that were relevant to our audit of the consolidated group were audited using an allocation of group performance materiality.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgementwas that performance materiality was 50% 2017: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 10.2m 2017: 10.8m.
Ourperformance materiality percentage has remained at 50% to reflect the risk associated with the ongoing changes across thefinance organisation that commenced during FY16, and which included in 2018 for Switzerland, Austria and Germany theimplementation of their respective X3 ERP system for certain processes and the stabilisation of the Financial Shared ServicesCentres.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts isundertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement atthat component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1.0m to 5.7m 2017:1.1m to 6.0m.
140 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1.0m 2017:1.1m, which is set at 5% of materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting onqualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report as set out on pages 2 to 133, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 133 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk Committee reporting set out on page 93 the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 75 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose adeparture from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE SAGE GROUP PLC CONTINUED Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 133, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financialstatements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 102, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
We understood how the Group is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the company secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes and papers provided to the Audit and Risk Committee as well as consideration of the results of ouraudit procedures across the Group.
142 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand where it considered there was susceptibility tofraud and on those specific areas of financial reporting more prevalent in whistleblowing incidences.
We also considered performance targets and their propensity to influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings particularly in thelight of the revised market guidance issued in April 2018.
We considered the programmes and controls that the Group hasestablished to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those programmes and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk or other risk of material misstatement.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of legalcounsel, group management, internal audit, Country management and all full and specific scope management: and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the Company at the AGM on 28 February 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30September 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is four years, covering the years ended 30 September 2015, 30 September 2016, 30 September 2017 and 30 September 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent Company and weremain independent of the Group and the parent Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Alison Duncan Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 20 November 2018 The following foot note should be added to the audit report when it is published or distributed electronically: Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of The Sage Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in otherjurisdictions.
