Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Saga plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Saga plc the Company for the year ended 31 January 2018 which comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows, Parent Company statement of financial position, Parent Company statement of changes in equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies notes.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 January 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 22 June 2017 and therefore this is the first period that we are engaged as auditor for the Group.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: Group financial statements as a whole 9.0m 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations Coverage 98% of total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax Risks of material misstatement Valuation of claims outstanding gross and net Recoverability of Group goodwill and of Parents investment in subsidiaries Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 128 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Valuation of Subjective valuation: Our controls procedures included: claims outstanding Claims outstanding represent the Control design and operation: testing, with the gross and net largest liability for the Group.
support of our IT specialists, the design, Gross 467.0 million: Valuation of these liabilities is implementation and operating effectiveness of key 2017: 517.0 million, highly judgemental, and requires a controls over claims and premiums data entry and Net 272.8 million: number of assumptions to be made model processing for the calculation of IBNR claims 2017: 367.7 million that have high estimation to assess completeness and accuracy of data: uncertainty and can have material Refer to page 74 Data comparisons: reconciliations between the impacts on the valuation.
Key Audit Committee claims data recorded in the policy administration assumptions include expected loss Report, page 151 systems and the data used in the actuarial ratios and estimates of the accounting policy reserving calculations to assess the integrity of the frequency and severity of claims, and page 188 data used in the actuarial reserving process: and used to value the liabilities, financial disclosures.
Assessing application: We also compared samples particularly those relating to the of claims case reserves, including large loss amount and timing of future claims.
reserves, to appropriate documentation, such as Certain areas of the claims reports from loss adjusters, solicitors and medical outstanding balance contain greater experts in order to validate that the valuation of uncertainty, for example third party individual claims reserves followed the prescribed bodily injury claims exhibit greater reserving methodology.
variability and are more long tailed We involved our actuarial specialists to perform the than the damage classes.
following procedures: In particular the allowance made Independent re-performance: Performing for the current and potential independent re-projections on a sample of the less propensity change following the certain classes at year end.
This exercise focused Ogden rate change on Periodic on re-projecting, using our own models, the best Payment Order PPO reserves are estimate of reserves held for the third party bodily very uncertain and have a high injury peril of business underwritten by the Group, reserving risk.
being the most significant and more uncertain Similar judgements are required in element of the reserves held at the balance sheet establishing the reinsurers share date.
Our reprojections did not include the reserves of insurance provisions, in held for other perils or smaller classes such as particular share of Incurred but Caravan or Van or business introduced through the not Reported IBNR claims.
Automobile Association and Direct Choice: Benchmarking assumptions: challenging the A margin is added to the actuarial assumptions, such as claim frequency and severity, best estimate of insurance liabilities in the valuation of claims outstanding gross and to make allowance for specific risks net.
This was achieved by benchmarking against and uncertainties that are not market data: specifically allowed for in Historical comparisons and our experience: establishing the actuarial best Evaluating the track record of assumptions used, in estimate.
The appropriate margin to particular previous claims experience and loss recognise is a subjective judgement ratios, against the Companys historical data and and estimate taken by the directors, our market experience: based on the perceived uncertainty Testing application: Analysing a targeted sample and potential for volatility in the of case reserves to identify and test the application underlying claims.
of significant assumptions applied in determining the level of reported reserves.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 129 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Saga plc continued The risk Our response Valuation of claims Margin evaluation: Evaluating the appropriateness of the outstanding gross management recommended margin that is held in addition and net continued to the actuarial best estimate for additional risk and uncertainty not specifically allowed for.
In order to do this, we assessed the Directors approach to, and analysis performed, in setting the margin, having regard to the allowance for uncertainties inherent in the data and assumptions in developing the actuarial best estimate.
We then considered the relative strength of the margin held versus the prior period to be satisfied that no additional prudence had been recognised in the level of margin held: Tests of detail: Assessed the risk transfer elements of the reinsurance contracts and the accuracy of a sample of reinsurance recoveries recorded, including reinsurance recoveries related to IBNR, against the terms of relevant reinsurance agreements: and Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity of the balance to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of claims outstanding.
Our results We found the valuation of claims outstanding to be acceptable.
Recoverability of Forecast-based valuation: Our procedures included: Group goodwill and Goodwill in the Group and the Control design: Evaluating the design and of Parents carrying amount of the Parent implementation of the Groups impairment assessment investment in Companys investment in procedures, including budgeting and forecasting, subsidiaries subsidiaries are significant including as applied to the Parent Company: Group goodwill: and at risk of irrecoverability Historical comparisons: assessing the reasonableness of 1,485.0 million: 2017: if forecast business cash flow projections against the historical performance: 1,485.0 million: performance for the Groups Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the Group and Parent investment in retail insurance broking and Parent Companys assumptions to externally derived subsidiaries: 2,104.2 travel businesses, in data in relation to key inputs such as projected million: 2017: 2,102.7 particular, were to fall economic growth, competition, cost inflation and million significantly short of business discount rates with the help of our valuation specialists: plans.
The estimated Refer to page 74 Comparing valuations: In response to the low market recoverable amount of these Audit Committee capitalisation, we compared the Value in Use for both balances is subjective due Report, pages 145 the Groups cash generating units as a whole and for to the inherent uncertainty and 204 accounting the Parent Company with external, financial-market involved in forecasting and policy and pages 167 analysts valuation ranges for the Groups shares, discounting future cash flows.
and 206 financial including comparison of those analysts assumptions disclosures.
This is an area of additional underlying their valuations and the assumptions used in focus at the year end in light the Value in Use.
of the fall in the Groups share Sensitivity analysis: Using our analytical tools to assess price, resulting in the market the sensitivity of the goodwill headroom to changes in capitalisation of the Group key assumptions, both individually and collectively: and to be significantly lower Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups than the net assets in the disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the Parent Company.
impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
Our results We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of Group goodwill and of the Parent Companys investment in subsidiaries, as well as the disclosures around the sensitivities of goodwill to the key assumptions, to be acceptable.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 130 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 9.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax from continuing operations, of 178.7m, of which it represents 5%.
Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 2.5m by reference to component materiality, which represents 0.1% of total assets.
This is lower than the materiality we would otherwise have determined by reference to Company total assets.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.36m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 13 reporting components, we subjected 4 to full scope audits for Group purposes and 3 to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require a full scope audit for Group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
For the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated below.
Profit before tax from Continuing Operations Group materiality 178.7m 9.0m 9.0m Whole financial statements materiality 4.5m Range of materiality at 13 components 1.1m-4.5m 0.36m profit before tax Misstatements reported Group materiality to the Audit Committee Group revenue Total profits and losses that made Group total assets up Group profit before tax 3% 16% 8% 93% 98% 98% 82% 85% 95% Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 Residual components Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 131 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Saga plc continued The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 1.1m to 4.5m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 3 of the 13 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the Parent Company, was performed by the Group team.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement on page 54 of the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 54 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report and Accounts The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report and Accounts together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic Report and Directors Report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 54 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the principal risks and uncertainties disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 132 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 126, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud or other irregularities is higher than for one resulting from error, as they may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control and may involve any area of law and regulation not just those directly affecting the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 133 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Saga plc continued  to detect Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
We identified relevant areas of laws and regulations from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of regulatory capital, regulatory compliance, recognising that there are operations of the Group authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the financial and regulated nature of the Groups activities and its legal form.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Stuart Crisp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 11 April 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 134
