Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Sanne Group plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion the financial statements of Sanne Group plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group : give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : have been properly prepared in accordance with Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Balance Sheet: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: and the related notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: revenue recognition valuation of accrued income in Mauritius: impairment of intangible assets, specifically goodwill: accounting for acquisitions: and valuation of trade receivables.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year are identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 1.1m which was determined on the basis of pre-tax profit.
Scoping Included within our scope for the audit of the group financial statements were five financially significant components across four jurisdictions Jersey, Luxembourg, the United States and Mauritius.
Also included within our scope were 22 non-financially significant components.
Significant changes Since the acquisition of the businesses in Luxembourg LIS and CP and Spain during 2018, the scope of inourapproach our audit changed to also include these reporting components as significant components of the group.
We also identified the valuation of trade receivables as a key audit matter in the current year.
Other than these two matters, there were no other significant changes in our audit approach.
indd 102 08 04 2019 11:50:36 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in note 3 to the financial statements about whether they We confirm that we have considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their nothing material to report, identification of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least add or draw attention to in twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the company, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used tomake the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have Principal risks and viability statement nothing material to report, Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the add or draw attention to in knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the respect of these matters.
directors assessment of the groups ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 35 - 39 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 35 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 74 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, andwedo not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In the current year we have referred to a new key audit matter in respect of trade receivables because in the overall context of the audit ofthe group as a whole, this area, together with the other areas reported, took up the most significant efforts or resources of theengagement team.
indd 103 08 04 2019 11:50:36 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Sanne Group plc Revenue recognition valuation of accrued income in Mauritius Key audit matter At the year-end there is 6.6m 2017: 3.1m of accrued income on the balance sheet.
This comprises a description combination of time which has been spent working on client matters which has not been billed as at the yearend date and amounts relating to fixed fees which are billed in arrears which have also not been billed at the year-end but which have been accrued.
In our view the highest level of risk relates to those time based elements which have not yet been billed due to the level of judgement involved in determining the value of time which is recoverable.
Out of the 6.6m, 3.2m relates to time based amounts and of this, 2.3m pertains to Sanne Mauritius Limited SML which is where we have pinpointed our key audit matter.
The accrued income is required to be stated at the amount Bodycote auditors icons.
indd 1 27 02 2017 17:02:29 which is recoverable and because SML is on a different billing cycle to the rest of the group and the accrued income is aged, there is a risk of material misstatement that accrued income is not recoverable.
There is a high level of judgement applied by management in assessing and determining the value of the time based accrued income.
The accounting policy is detailed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
The judgements are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 69.
How the scope of our We have evaluated the design and implementation of controls around the quarterly billing and accrued audit responded to the income evaluation process specific to the valuation of accrued income in SML.
key audit matter For a sample of clients for which accrued income has been recognised, we have reviewed the level of bills raised and recovered post year end.
For those amounts not billed or recovered post year end, we have challenged managements judgement and rationale around the recoverability of the amounts through reviewing fee agreements and communications with clients to verify the amounts which are able to be Bodycote auditors icons.
We also reviewed historical billing and payment patterns in respect of those clients to support judgments to the extent required.
Key observations We consider managements judgements around the valuation of the accrued income amounts in SML to bereasonable.
indd 104 08 04 2019 11:50:36 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Impairment of intangible assets, specifically goodwill Key audit matter In previous years and during the current year there have been a number of acquisitions by the group resulting description in a goodwill balance of 188.8m 2017: 107.3m as at the year-end.
An acquisition was made in Mauritius in the prior year and further acquisitions were made in Luxembourg and Spain in the current year.
The initial valuation of the intangible assets, including the allocation of goodwill, is determined in the year of acquisition, however continual judgement is applied by management in performing impairment reviews in respect of the carrying value of goodwill.
The accounting policy is detailed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
The assumptions and judgements which are made in respect of these areas are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 69 Bodycote auditors icons.
How the scope of our We have evaluated the design and implementation of controls around the preparation and review of audit responded to the impairment models.
key audit matter We evaluated and challenged managements future cash flow forecasts and the process by which they were drawn up through assessing the reasonableness of the underlying assumptions applied based our understanding of the business.
We compared managements forecast with the latest approved budgets forconsistency and we tested the underlying value in use calculations.
indd 1 27 02 2017 17:02:29 We performed sensitivity analysis and identified that the valuation was most sensitive to the key assumptionsaround growth rates, cost margins and discount rates.
We challenged the key assumptions for short and long-term growth rates and the cost margins in the forecasts by comparing them with historical results.
We also challenged the discount rate used in the calculations by assessing the cost of capital for the group and comparable organisations and assessing thespecific risk premium applied to each cash generating unit CGU in question.
We ascertained the extent to which a reduction in these assumptions, both individually or in aggregate, wouldresult in goodwill impairment, and considered the likelihood of such events occurring.
Key observations As a result of the above procedures we considered the carrying value of goodwill to be materially reasonable.
indd 1 27 02 2017 17:02:29 Accounting for acquisitions Key audit matter The accounting for business combinations is complex.
There have been two acquisitions during the year of description the Luxembourg and Spanish businesses which have been subject to this accounting as set out in note 31.
Furthermore there is a significant amount of judgement involved in the determination of the fair value of the acquired assets and the allocation of the purchase price, resulting in a risk that the associated valuations may not be accurate.
The judgement arises from the fact that there are a number of assumptions which are included in the model used to determine the fair value and allocation of the value between goodwill and intangible assets such as estimation of useful economic lives of the assets, growth rates, attrition rates and the discount rate.
The initial recognition of intangible assets related to this acquisition is disclosed as a critical judgement in note 4 Bodycote auditors icons.
The judgements are also set out in the Audit Committee report on page 69.
How the scope of our We have evaluated the design and implementation of controls around the accounting for acquisitions.
audit responded to the We have challenged the judgements applied in the valuation models and purchase price allocation through key audit matter reviewing comparable data and the most significant challenges were around attrition rates, overhead and direct cost allocations and contributory asset charges included within the model.
In addition we challenged management around certain methodology matters relating to the models including the exclusion of brand value.
Our challenges were made with reference to cumulatively acquired knowledge Bodycote auditors icons.
indd 1 27 02 2017 17:02:29 of the group, the acquired entity and other market and industry factors.
Key observations We considered managements overall estimate in respect of the purchase price allocation to be reasonable.
indd 105 08 04 2019 11:50:37 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Sanne Group plc Valuation of trade receivables Key audit matter The value of trade receivables at the year-end, net of the allowance for doubtful receivables, is 42.7m description 2017:26.0m.
There is a significant level of judgement involved in determining the valuation of trade receivables, specifically those outside their standard payment period, based on managements expectation of recoverability which takes into consideration a range of factors.
The value of the trade receivables considered to be outside their standard payment period was 10.7m 2017: 4.4m.
Given the increase in the value of the trade receivables since the prior period and the change in the ageing profile, this was considered to be a new key audit matter in the current year.
indd 1 How the scope o 27 02 2017 17:02:29 f our We have evaluated the design and implementation of controls around the quarterly billing process specific audit responded to the to the valuation of trade receivables.
For a sample of trade receivables, we have reviewed the post year-end key audit matter bank statements to test the recoverability of the amounts stated at the year-end.
From that sample, for the amounts not recovered post-year end, we have challenged managements judgement and rationale around the recoverability of the amounts and obtained evidence to support the judgement to the extent required, including an assessment of specific client circumstances.
We have also reviewed the level of credit notes raised post year-end.
indd 1 27 02 2017 17:02:29 Key observations We considered the judgements made by management in respect of the valuation of trade receivables tobereasonable.
indd 1 27 02 2017 17:02:29 Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions ofa reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work andin evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 1.1m 2017: 1.1m Basis for determining 5% of pre-tax profit 2017: 5% of pre-tax profit materiality Rationale for the Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality by applying a benchmark of 5% of benchmark applied group profit before tax.
We believe that underlying profit before tax is the most appropriate measure as it eliminates any disproportionate effect of adjustments for non-underlying items and provides a consistent year-on year basis for our work.
Group materiality 1.1m Component materiality range PBT 23.7m 0.4m to 0.8m Audit Committee PBT reporting threshold Group materiality 0.022m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 22,000 2017: 22,000, aswell as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
indd 106 08 04 2019 11:50:37 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com An overview of the scope of our audit We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
The groups accounting process is structured around a local finance function in each of the territories in which the group operates which maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to a Head Office finance team in Jersey, supported by South Africa, throughsubmission of management reporting packs.
At a group level, the head office finance team consolidates the reporting packs of all reporting components.
In our view, due to their financial significance and or risk characteristics, those businesses in Mauritius, the United States and certain entities in Jersey and Luxembourg, required an audit of their complete financial information.
We used component auditors from Deloitte network firms and onefirm outside the Deloitte network, all of whom are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of the identified territories outsidethe UK to perform this audit work.
The component materialities used were between 40% and 80% of group materiality based onthepercentage of the group benchmark represented by each component.
Specific risk-based audit procedures were performed bylocal teams in Luxembourg, South Africa and Mauritius.
The work on the valuation of accrued income was performed by Deloitte Mauritius as the component auditor and senior members of thegroup engagement team performed a detailed review of the components working papers as well as having detailed discussions with local client management and staff to obtain a thorough understanding of the accounting treatment applied.
Based upon group materiality, we did not carry out detailed audit procedures on all components within the group.
Local audit teams perform statutory audits of subsidiary companies where required by local legislation.
In order to direct and supervise the group audit, thegroup engagement team sent detailed instructions to significant component audit teams.
This included communication of the areas offocus above and other required communications.
The group engagement team held regular meetings with component auditors throughout the year and visited the audit teams located in South Africa, Mauritius and Luxembourg at various stages of the audit.
Thisensured that we had a comprehensive understanding of the results of their work, particularly insofar as it related to the identified areasof focus.
The group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and certain other items were audited by the group engagement team in Jersey.
This included share based payments which is not covered by the work performed by component auditors.
Taken together, these procedures gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
indd 107 08 04 2019 11:50:37 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Sanne Group plc Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any formofassurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, indoing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or ourknowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, ismaterially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate GovernanceCode.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary toenable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
indd 108 08 04 2019 11:50:37 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 2018 Stock code: SNN sannegroup.
com Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on other matter prescribed by our engagement letter In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisionsof the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the company.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing toreport in respect Under the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in anauditors report and those matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Helen Gale for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Recognized Auditor St Helier, Jersey 21 March 2019 109 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Front.
indd 109 08 04 2019 11:50:37 26236 8 April 2019 11:48 am Proof 13 Financial Statements Annual report for the year ended 2018 Financial Statements Consolidated Income Statement 112 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 113 Consolidated Balance Sheet 114 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 115 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 116 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 117 Shareholder and corporateinformation 155 The relationship we have with SANNE is very good.
Thereporting we receive is timely and the quality of the reporting has been goodthatsdown to the quality ofthepeople they have.
Taken from our Client Survey 2018 110 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Back.
com 111 Sanne Group Plc AR2018 - Back.
