Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Savills plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company statements of financial position as at 31 December 2018: the Consolidated income statement: the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company statements of cash flows: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in the Directors Report, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Context Savills plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is structured across four business lines: Transactional Advisory, Property Consultancy, Property and Facilities Management, and Investment Management Services.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units that make up the four business lines, spread across four geographical regions, UK, Europe & the Middle East, North America and Asia Pacific.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 7.2m 2017: 7.0m, based on 5% of Group underlying profit before tax as defined in note 2.2 to the financial statements.
Overall Company materiality: 2.4m 2017: 2.3m, based on 1% of total assets.
We conducted audit work in the UK, Germany, Spain, North America, Hong Kong, China, South Korea, Singapore, Japan, UAE and Australia, and across all four of the Groups business lines.
Audits of the complete financial information were performed on the businesses in the UK, US, Hong Kong, Shanghai China Central, Australia, South Korea, Spain as well as the German Investment Management business.
We carried out specified procedures over the financial information of the entities in Beijing, Dubai, Sharjah, Japan and Singapore.
We carried out procedures on components of the business which accounted for 82% 2017: 86% of Group revenues and 91% 2017: 91% of Group underlying profit before tax.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to cut-off for transaction income in the investment management and transactional advisory businesses Group.
Goodwill impairment assessment particularly for European businesses and the US Group.
Recoverability of trade receivables Group.
Savills plc 90 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including those relating to financial services, company law and real estate services across the Group.
Our tests included discussing compliance with internal legal counsel, Groups primary external legal counsel and examining litigation costs incurred by the Group over the financial year.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to For a sample of material transactions, we evaluated the commercial cut-off for transaction income in the investment rationale and the revenue recognition policy adopted and determined management and transactional advisory businesses that the related revenue had been recorded on a consistent basis Group across the Group in accordance with Group policies and IFRS 15.
Refer to page 103 note 2 to the financial statements There was a significant risk identified around cut off of transactions for the Directors disclosures of the related which was tested through agreeing a sample of revenue transactions accounting policies, judgments and estimates.
to underlying contracts and third party completion documentation, for example, property sales completion statements, determining that Our specific audit focus was on the risk that revenue these sales had taken place and were recorded in the correct period.
may be recorded in the incorrect period in respect of transaction fees in the transactional advisory There were no material issues identified by our testing of revenue and investment management businesses, in light recognition in the year.
of the incentive schemes for management in those businesses designed to reward performance.
The recognition of revenue is largely dependent on the date the underlying transaction is deemed to be completed.
Savills plc 91 Report and Accounts 2018 Independent auditors report continued Our audit approach continued Key audit matters continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill impairment assessment Group We evaluated and challenged the Directors future cash flow forecasts and the process by which they were drawn up, and Refer to page 57 Audit Committee Report, page 103 tested the underlying value in use calculations.
We compared and Significant Accounting Policies and pages 136 managements forecast with the latest Board-approved budget to 139 notes.
and found them to be consistent.
The Group carried 383.8m of goodwill at 31 We challenged: December 2018 2017: 353.3m of which 156m related to the US.
the key assumptions for short and long term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them with historical results, as well as The carrying value of goodwill is contingent on future economic and industry forecasts for the relevant international cash flows of the underlying cash generating units property markets: and CGUs and there is a risk that if these cash flows do not meet the Directors expectations, the goodwill will the discount rate used in the calculations by assessing the cost of be impaired.
A particular focus during our testing was capital for the Group and comparable organisations, and assessed the goodwill balance in relation to US which makes up the specific risk premium applied to each CGU in question.
We performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions within the cash flow forecasts.
This included sensitising the discount rate applied to the future cash flows, and the short and longer term growth rates and profit margins.
We ascertained the extent to which a reduction in these assumptions both individually or in aggregate would result in goodwill impairment, and considered the likelihood of such events occurring.
We did not regard this to be reasonably possible as there is sufficient headroom across all the cash generating units.
Provisions for litigation Group In order to assess the accuracy and completeness of the provisions held at the balance sheet date, we performed the following Refer to page 57 Audit Committee Report, page 103 procedures: Significant Accounting Policies and pages 155 to 156 notes.
Obtained and read the legal claim letters and accompanying third party documentation received by the Group: The Group is subject to a number of legal claims in Obtained and read the legal insurance contract, and verified that the normal course of business.
The calculation of the terms were appropriately accounted for: provisions against these claims is judgmental, given the range of possible outcomes on each claim.
Met with the Groups internal and external legal counsels to consider in detail a number of cases, including the potential Our audit procedures took into account both the exposure after taking into account the Groups insurance cover: potential exposure and the extent to which liabilities Verified the amounts and other details in respect of each new are likely to crystallise, as well as the adequacy of claim to the relevant supporting documentation: the insurance cover held by the Group.
The Group provision for litigation as at 31 December 2018 is Reviewed the outcome of prior year estimates of litigation 11.0m 2017: 11.3m.
provisions to help assess the reliability of the estimates this year: Reviewed the legal cases settled during the year and, where relevant, traced the related cash payments to bank statements: and Examined Board minutes, legal expenses incurred during the year and any litigation-related matters arising after the year-end.
We determined based on these procedures that the Directors had made reasonable judgments in their assessment process for determining the level of provision held.
Our procedures did not identify any further legal cases other than those identified by management.
Savills plc 92 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Recoverability of trade receivables Group In order to test the recoverability of trade receivables, we performed the following procedures: Refer to page 57 Audit Committee Report, page 103 Significant Accounting Policies and pages 149 to 151 A sample of trade receivables invoices were agreed to the post notes.
year end cash receipts by vouching to bank statements.
Where cash had not been received post year-end, we performed The Group is exposed to a risk of default in respect alternative procedures, by agreeing amounts recorded to of trade receivables given the current global underlying sales contracts and completion documentation: environment, and there is therefore a risk that the net valuation of receivables could be overstated.
This risk Discussed and assessed the reasons that the amounts were not is factored into our audit approach with respect to yet paid with local management teams.
We also evaluated the the provision against trade receivables.
Groups credit control procedures, and assessed the ageing profile of trade receivables, focusing on older debts: We challenged management as to the recoverability of the older, unprovided amounts, corroborating management explanations with underlying documentation and correspondence with the customer: and We reviewed managements bad debt provision calculations and ensured that these were consistent with Group policy, now being the expected credit loss model as stipulated by IFRS 9, and that they provided appropriate cover over older uncollected debts.
Based upon the above, we are satisfied that management had taken reasonable judgments that were supported by the available evidence in respect of the relevant receivables.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
Taken together, our full scope audit procedures accounted for 82% 2017: 86% of Group revenues and 91% 2017: 91% of Group underlying profit before tax.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a local finance function in each of the territories in which the Group operates.
In Europe, these functions maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to a Head Office finance team in the UK through submission of management reporting packs.
In Asia Pacific, these functions similarly report to a regional finance team in Hong Kong, and in the North America the local functions report to the North America finance team in New York.
At a Group level, a separate finance team consolidates the reporting packs of Europe & the Middle East, Asia Pacific, UK, North America and the central functions.
In our view, due to their significance and or risk characteristics, businesses in the UK and North America, Spain, Hong Kong, Shanghai China Central, South Korea and Australia within the Asia Pacific region, and the German Investment Management business, required an audit of their complete financial information.
We used component auditors from PwC network firms who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of the identified territories outside the UK to perform this audit work.
Specific risk-based audit procedures were performed by local teams in Beijing, Dubai, Sharjah, Japan and Singapore.
Based upon Group materiality, we did not carry out detailed audit procedures on Savills Europe other than Spain.
Local audit teams perform statutory audits of subsidiary companies in Europe where required by local legislation.
These audits were carried out to the same timetable as the Group audit and, accordingly, we were able to incorporate the results of their work into our overall risk assessment.
In order to direct and supervise the Group audit, the Group engagement team sent detailed instructions to significant component audit teams.
This included communication of the areas of focus above and other required communications.
The Group engagement team held regular meetings throughout the year with all significant component audit teams.
The Group team visited the audit teams located at the Savills Asia Pacific head office in Hong Kong, given the significance of this region to the Group and the North America head office in New York.
This ensured that we had a comprehensive understanding of the results of their work particularly insofar as it related to the identified areas of focus.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included pensions, share-based payments, tax and goodwill impairment.
Taken together, these procedures gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Savills plc 93 Report and Accounts 2018 Independent auditors report continued Our audit approach continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 7.2m 2017: 7.0m.
How we 5% of Group underlying profit before tax as defined in 1% of total assets.
determined it note 2.2 to the financial statements.
Rationale for Based on our professional judgement, we determined The parent Company is a non-trading holding benchmark applied materiality by applying a benchmark of 5% of Company and accordingly we conclude that underlying profit before tax.
We believe that underlying the total assets is an appropriate benchmark.
profit before tax is the most appropriate measure as it eliminates any disproportionate effect of exceptional charges and provides a consistent year-on-year basis for our work.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was 1.1m and 6.2m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.3m Group audit 2017: 0.3m and 0.3m Company audit 2017: 0.3m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
or draw attention to in respect of the Directors statement As not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this in the financial statements about whether the Directors statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis ability to continue as a going concern.
For example, the of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the terms on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the European Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the concern over a period of at least twelve months from the potential implications on the Groups and Companys trade, date of approval of the financial statements.
customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
Savills plc 94 Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 24 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 29 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 88, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 56 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Savills plc 95 Report and Accounts 2018 Independent auditors report continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement set out on page 88, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the members on 30 April 2001 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2001 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 17 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2001 to 31 December 2018.
John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 13 March 2019 Savills plc 96 Report and Accounts 2018
