171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt3 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt3 10 12 2018 14:12 Page 27 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plcs financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30September 2018 and of its net return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law : and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the annual report and accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Statement of Financial Position as at 30September 2018: the Income Statement, the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company.
We have provided no non-audit services to the Company in the period from 1October 2017 to 30September 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall materiality: 8.25million 2017: 8.00million, based on 1% of net assets.
Audit scope The Company is a standalone investment trust company and engages Schroder Unit Trusts Limited the Manager to manage its assets.
Materiality We conducted our audit of the financial statements using information from HSBC Securities Services, to whom the Manager has, with the consent of the directors, delegated the provision of certain administrative functions.
Audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the Company, the involvement of the third parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
Key audit We obtained an understanding of the control environment in place at both the Manager and HSBC matters Securities Services, and adopted a fully substantive testing approach using reports obtained from HSBC Securities Services.
Key audit matters Income from investments.
Valuation and existence of investments.
Annual Report and Accounts 27 for the year ended 30 September 2018 Financial 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt3 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt3 10 12 2018 14:12 Page 28 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Company and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Company which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Companys financial statements, including, but not limited to, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, enquiries with management and testing the Companys compliance with section 1158 in the current year.
We also tested the tax disclosures in Note 7.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Income from investments Our main audit procedures over income were as follows: We read the basis of accounting and accounting policy Refer to page 21 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, selected by the directors covering recognition of income pages 35 and 36 accounting policies and pages 37 to 47 and assessed it for compliance with UK Generally notes to the accounts Accepted Accounting Practice comprising FRS 102 UK ISAs UK presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue GAAP and the AIC SORP.
For the purpose of clarification, revenue refers to all of the Companys income streams, those classified as To respond to the risk of fraud in revenue recognition we both revenue and capital including unrealised realised gained an understanding of both automated and manual gains and losses on investments.
journals posted to the income account.
We tested a sample of manual year end adjusting journals including We considered this risk to specifically relate to the risk of material journals and those impacting income revenue misstating unrealised realised gains losses on investments and capital.
and the misclassification of dividend income as capital rather than revenue due to the pressure that management We understood and assessed the design and may feel to achieve capital growth in line with the objective implementation of key controls surrounding income of the Company.
To test for the occurrence and accuracy of capital gains, We also focused on the accuracy, occurrence and we vouched a sample of realised gains to supporting completeness of income from investments, as incomplete or evidence such as bank statements and recalculated inaccurate income could have a material impact on the unrealised gains and losses through testing the valuation Companys net asset value.
of 100% of the investment portfolio using independent third party prices as described below.
To test completeness of dividend income we agreed that appropriate dividends had been received in the year by reference to independent data of dividends declared for the investment holdings in the portfolio.
To test occurrence and accuracy of dividend income we tested all dividends received by reference to the investment holding in the portfolio and recalculated the amounts using third party data.
We also considered the classification of income between revenue and capital.
Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc 28 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt3 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt3 10 12 2018 14:12 Page 29 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We concluded that income had been accounted for in accordance with the stated accounting policy and the AIC SORP and no material differences were noted.
Our main audit procedures over these investments were as Valuation and existence of investments follows: Refer to pages 7 and 8 investment portfolio, page 21 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, pages 35 and 36 We agreed 100% of investment prices used in the accounting policies and pages 37 to 47 notes to the calculation of the year end valuation of investments to accounts.
The investment portfolio at 30September 2018 comprised We agreed the foreign currency exchange rates used for listed equity investments of 851.0million.
We focused on investments priced in currencies other than sterling as at the valuation and existence of investments because the year end to independent third party sources.
investments represent the principal element of the NAV as We agreed the holdings of each of the quoted disclosed in the Statement of Financial Position in the investments at 30September 2018, to a confirmation financial statements.
provided directly to us by the third party custodian, HSBC Bank Plc.
We re-calculated the carrying value of each of the listed investments by multiplying the price per share by the holding, taking into consideration applicable foreign exchange rates.
We concluded that the valuation of investments held at fair value through profit or loss was consistent with the Companys accounting policies and that the investments existed and were owned by the Company at the year end.
No material differences were noted.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which it operates.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Companys financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and UK tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of legal expense accounts and enquiries of management.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Annual Report and Accounts 29 for the year ended 30 September 2018 Financial 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt3 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt3 10 12 2018 14:12 Page 30 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall materiality 8.25million 2017: 8.00million.
How we determined it 1% of net assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits, in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate and because we believe this provides an appropriate and consistent year-onyear basis for our audit.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 412,000 2017: 400,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing material to add or to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the draw attention to.
However, because directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting not all future events or conditions can in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any be predicted, this statement is not a material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over guarantee as to the Companys ability a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial to continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to going concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 30September 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc 30 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt3 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt3 10 12 2018 14:12 Page 31 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc The directors assessment of the prospects of the Company and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Company We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 12 of the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 14 of the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 23, that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the annual report on page 21 describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to that committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and accounts set out on page 23, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 for the year ended 30 September 2018 Financial 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt3 171592 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund Annual Report Pt3 10 12 2018 14:12 Page 32 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit and risk committee, we were appointed by the directors in 1995 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30September 1996 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 23 years, covering the years ended 30September 1996 to 30September 2018.
Jennifer March Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 10December 2018 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc 32
