Financial statements continued Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements of Schroders plc the Parent company and its subsidiaries collectively, the Group : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit forthe year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU : and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Schroders plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December Schroders plc Statement of financial position at 31 December 2018 2018 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Schroders plc Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 ended 31 December 2018 December 2018 Consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2018 Schroders plc Cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 Schroders plc Notes to the accounts 29 to 37 December 2018 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 Notes to the accounts 1 to 28 and Presentation of the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the EU and, as regards the Parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 40 to 47 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 42 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 93 in the Annual Report about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 42 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
168 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Overview of our audit approach First year audit considerations In preparation for our first year audit of the 31 December 2018 financial statements, we prepared a detailed transition plan.
Our audit planning and transition commenced in May 2017 after we had confirmed our independence of the Group to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Our transition activities included shadowing the former auditor  LLP PwC at key meetings with management, including meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee.
We reviewed PwCs 2017 audit work papers and gained an understanding of their risk assessment and key judgments.
In April 2018 we held an audit planning meeting with senior members of our key location teams in order to agree our first year audit approach.
Members of Schroders management directly relevant to our audit also participated in parts of the meeting.
Our global audit team has deep knowledge of the wealth and asset management industry and has been involved in the audits of large international financial services companies.
We obtained a specific understanding of the Groups business, culture and operations, through review, enquiry, observation and visiting a number of the Groups locations.
This transition activity allowed us to gain an understanding of the Groups key processes and controls over financial reporting.
We then established our audit base and formalised our audit strategy for the 2018 Group audit.
Key audit matters Improper recognition of revenue Improper recognition of cost of sales Audit scope The Group is comprised of over 200 legal entities domiciled in 30 countries.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of six legal entities and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 24 legal entities.
The legal entities where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 99% of profit before tax and exceptional items, 91% of revenue and 99% of total assets.
Certain of the Groups processes over financial reporting are centralised in the finance operations hubs of London, Luxembourg, Singapore and Zurich and as a result, the majority of our testing was performed in these locations.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 38 million, which represents 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 169 Financial statements continued Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Risk Our response to the risk Group only risk: We have: Improper recognition of revenue 2,626.4 million, gained an understanding of the procedures and controls in place throughout 2017: 2,511.7 million the revenue process, both at Schroders, through walkthrough procedures, Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee report page 62 and and at third party administrators, through review of independent controls Note 2 of the Consolidated financial statements page 102 assurance reports: IT systems: tested the controls over the access to, and changes to, the Schroders manages funds in numerous domiciles, which systems underpinning the revenue process, including testing controls over consist of many share classes.
Schroders also manages the flow of data between systems for completeness and accuracy: segregated portfolios for a range of institutions and provides wealth management services.
The inputs and fee agreements: tested the controls over new and amended fee agreements.
calculation methodologies that drive the fees vary For a sample of fees, agreed the fee terms used in the calculation to significantly across this population.
In particular, investment management agreements IMAs, fee letters or fund performance fees and segregated accounts have a prospectuses.
Verified managements interpretation of the calculation range of calculation methodologies due to the significant methodology as set out in the agreement and applied in the revenue number of bespoke arrangements.
For the carried systems: interest arrangements, revenue is calculated manually.
calculation: tested automated controls over the arithmetical accuracy of a The following are identified as the key risks or subjective sample of fee calculations within the relevant systems: areas of revenue recognition: AUM: tested the controls in place for the calculation and verification of AUM used in the fee calculations.
For a sample of fees, tested the completeness not all agreements in place have been identified and and accuracy of AUM included in the fee calculation systems to administrator accounted for: reports or Schroders investment management systems: fee terms have not been correctly interpreted or billing: tested controls over the billing and cash management process.
For a entered into the fee calculation and billing systems: sample of fees, agreed the amounts recorded to the invoice sent to the client, assets under management AUM has not been as well as assessing the recoverability of debtors through subsequent cash properly attributed to fee agreements: receipt and inspection of the aged debtors report: errors in manually calculated revenues: and carried interest: challenged management over the judgments and estimates inappropriate judgments are made by management used in the valuation of the carried interest receivable.
For a sample of in the calculation of carried interest.
Schroder Adveq funds: agreed the inputs used in the carried interest calculations to third party sources and legal agreements: recalculated the There is also the risk that management may influence the recognition of revenue in order to meet market value of the carried interest receivable: and traced the discounted carried interest income to the revenue recorded: expectations or net operating revenue based targets.
review of other information: inspected the global complaints register and The Group applied IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with operational incident log to identify errors in revenue: and customers IFRS 15 from 1 January 2018 and determined that there is no material impact on the way in which the management override: in order to address the residual risk of management Group recognises its revenues, with the exception of override we have performed enquiries of management, read minutes carried interest.
throughout the year and performed journal entry testing.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in five The risk has neither increased nor decreased in the locations, which covered 91% of the total revenue.
Due to the centralised nature current year.
of the revenue process, the majority of our testing was performed in London and Luxembourg for Asset Management revenue and Zurich for Wealth Management revenue.
Key observations communicated to the Schroders Audit and Risk Committee All transactions tested have been recognised in accordance with the underlying agreements or other supporting documentation.
Revenue has been materially recorded in accordance with IFRS 15.
Based on the procedures performed, we have no matters to report in respect of revenue recognition.
170 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Risk Our response to the risk Group only risk: We have: Improper recognition of cost of sales 555.7 million, gained an understanding of the procedures and controls in place throughout 2017: 501.5 million the cost of sales process, both at Schroders, through walkthrough procedures, Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee report page 62 and and at third party administrators through review of independent controls Note 2 of the Consolidated financial statements page 102 assurance reports: Schroders has fee expense agreements in place with many IT systems: tested the controls over the access to, and changes to, the systems parties.
These expenses include: commissions, carried underpinning the fee expense process, including testing controls over the flow interest, external fund manager fees, and distribution fees of data between systems to test completeness and accuracy: payable to financial institutions, investment platform fee expense agreements: tested the controls over new agreements and providers and financial advisers.
The expenses are amended fee expense agreements.
For a sample of fee expenses, agreed the generally based on AUM.
fee expense terms used in the calculation to IMAs, fee letters or rebate The following are identified as the key risks or subjective agreements.
Verified managements interpretation of the calculation areas in correctly recognising fee expense: methodology as set out in the agreement and applied in the fee expense systems: not all agreements in place have been identified and accounted for: calculation: tested automated controls over the arithmetical accuracy of a sample of fee expense calculations within the relevant systems: fee expense terms have not been correctly interpreted: AUM: tested the controls in place for the calculation and verification of AUM AUM has not been properly identified or attributed to used in the fee expense calculations.
For a sample of fee expenses, tested the clients or third parties with fee expense arrangements: completeness and accuracy of the AUM included in the calculation to Schroders and transfer agency or investment management systems: inappropriate judgments are made by management in billing: tested controls over the cash management process.
For a sample of fee the calculation of carried interest.
expenses, agreed the amount recorded to the rebate statement sent to the There is also the risk that management may influence the client: recognition of cost of sales in order to meet market carried interest: challenged management over the judgments used in the expectations or net operating revenue based targets.
valuation of the carried interest liability.
For a sample of Schroder Adveq funds, The risk has neither increased nor decreased in the agreed the inputs used in the carried interest calculations to third party sources current year.
and legal agreements: recalculated the value of the carried interest liability: and traced the discounted carried interest expense to the cost of sales recorded: review of other information: inspected the global complaints register and operational incident log to identify errors in fee expense and verify that fee expense errors have been appropriately addressed: and management override: in order to address the residual risk of management override we have performed enquiries of management, read minutes throughout the year and performed journal entry testing.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in London and Luxembourg, which covered 90% of total cost of sales.
Cost of sales has been materially recorded in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1.
Based on the procedures performed, we have no matters to report in respect of cost of sales.
Prior year comparison In the prior year, PwC identified acquisitions accounting and valuation and completeness of uncertain tax positions as key audit matters.
We did not consider acquisitions accounting to be a key audit matter because the value of transactions entered into in 2018 was lower than in 2017.
Based on our risk assessment procedures, we did not consider valuation and completeness of uncertain tax positions to be a key audit matter.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 171 Financial statements continued Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc continued Audit scope Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
When assessing the level of work to be performed at each legal entity, we take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors, such as recent Internal Audit results.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we have adequate quantitative coverage of the significant accounts in the financial statements, we selected 30 legal entities within the following countries: UK, Channel Islands, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Singapore, USA, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Australia and Indonesia.
Of the 30 legal entities selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of six legal entities full scope entities, which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 24 legal entities specific scope entities, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that legal entity that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the Group financial statements, either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
For the remaining entities, that together represent 1% of the Groups profit before tax and exceptional items, we performed other Group procedures, including: analytical review, testing of consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations, tests of financial systems, centralised processes and controls, and foreign currency translation recalculations, to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Our final coverage is summarised below: Profit before tax and exceptional items Revenue Full scope components 95% Full scope components 68% Specic scope components 4% Specic scope components 23% Other procedures 1% Other procedures 9% Involvement with overseas teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the legal entities by the Group audit team or by local auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Schroders has centralised processes and controls over financial reporting within the finance operations hubs of London, Luxembourg, Singapore and Zurich.
Our teams performed centralised testing in the finance hubs for certain accounts including revenue, costs of sales, administrative expenses, variable compensation, provisions and intercompany transactions.
For non-centralised processes, the audit work was performed by legal entity auditors.
The Group audit team was responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process in each entity, interacted regularly with the local EY teams during each stage of the audit and reviewed key working papers.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, and the centralised testing, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
During 2018, the Senior Statutory Auditor, Julian Young, and other Group audit team members visited legal entities across seven countries, including each of the finance operations hubs.
This allowed the Group team to gain a greater understanding of the business issues faced in each location, discuss the audit approach with the local team and any issues arising from their work, meet with local management, attend key meetings and review key audit working papers.
The visits also promoted deeper engagement with our EY audit teams, ensuring that a consistent audit approach was adopted and that a high quality audit was executed.
The countries visited were: Luxembourg, Switzerland, Singapore, Indonesia, Hong Kong, USA and Channel Islands.
Prior year comparison It is normal practice to set a lower performance materiality for a first year audit.
This performance materiality was used in determining our scoping for each legal entity.
172 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 38 million, which is 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
We believe that profit before tax and exceptional items is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
We determined materiality for the Parent company to be 46 million, which is 1% of net assets.
The Parent company primarily holds the investments in Group entities and, therefore, net assets is considered to be the key focus for users of the financial statements.
We calculated materiality at the planning stage of the audit and then during the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality based on 31 December 2018 profit before tax and exceptional items, and adjusted our audit procedures accordingly.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
We have set performance materiality at 50% of our planning materiality, namely 19 million: this percentage is our normal practice for a first year audit.
Audit work at entity level, for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each entity is based on the relative scale and risk of the entity to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that entity.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to individual entities was 3.9 million to 10.8 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1.9 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Prior year comparison In 2017, the overall materiality for the Group was set at 40 million by PwC, which was 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
Our responsibility for other information in the annual report The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 1 to 94 and 176 to 180, including the Strategic report, Governance and Shareholder information sections, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to bematerially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 94 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk Committee reporting set out on pages 62 to 67 the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee or is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 55 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 173 Financial statements continued Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc continued Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the CompaniesAct2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, inouropinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 94, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of thefinancial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
174 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the Group and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements.
We determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and relevant tax compliance regulations.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules and relevant Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and Financial Conduct Authority FCA rules and regulations.
We understood how Schroders plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of senior management, including the Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Company Secretary, Head of Compliance, Head of Risk, Head of Internal Audit and the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
We corroborated our understanding through our review of Board and Committee meeting minutes, papers provided to the Audit and Risk Committee and correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management to understand where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their potential influence on efforts made by management to manage or influence the perceptions of analysts.
We considered the controls that the Group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of senior management, including those at full and specific scope entities: and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the Parent company on 9 March 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
Our appointment as auditor was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2018.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is one year.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Julian Young Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 6 March 2019 Notes 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Schroders plc web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2018 175
