| 38 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report Opinion In our opinion the Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 October 2018 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in November 2014 and updated in February 2018 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC the Company which comprise: the Income Statement: the Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Balance Sheet: the Statement of Changes in Equity: the Cash Flow Statement: and the related notes 1 to 18.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Valuation and existence of listed investments Recognition of investment income The key audit matters in this report are consistent with those reported in the prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 7.1m which was determined on the basis of 1% of net assets at 31 October 2018.
Scoping Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Significant changes There were no significant changes in our approach from the prior year.
in our approach 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 38 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 39 Independent Auditors Report continued Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the Directors statement on page 29 about whether they considered it nothing appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements material to and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so add or draw over a period of at least twelve months from the date of their approval.
attention to We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation in respect of to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially these matters.
inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent We confirm with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained that we have in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going nothing concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to material to in relation to: report, add or draw attention the disclosures on page 30 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being to in respect of managed or mitigated: these matters.
the Directors' confirmation on page 30 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 16 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Company required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation and existence of listed investments Listed investments of 716.0m 2017: 799.9m represent the most significant number on the Key audit balance sheet and is the main driver of the Companys performance.
Listed investments represented matter 89.4% 2017: 94.6% of total assets of the Company at 31 October 2018 see accounting policy b description and note 8.
There is a risk that the prices quoted in respect of the listed investments held by the Company may not be reflective of fair value.
There is a risk over the recording and custody of listed investments, and whether listed investments recorded are the property of the Company.
We have also identified this key audit matter as a potential fraud risk.
The description of the key audit matter above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 34.
indd 39 07 12 2018 14:58 | 40 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued Valuation and existence of listed investments How the scope of our audit We have performed the following procedures to address this key audit matter: responded to the key audit critically assessed the design and implementation of the controls over matter valuation and ownership of investments: confirmed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments on the investment ledger at year-end to closing bid prices published by an independent pricing source: and confirmed 100% of the Companys investment portfolio at the year-end to confirmations received directly from the custodian and depositary.
Key observations Based on the audit procedures performed, we concluded that the valuation and existence of listed investments are appropriate.
Recognition of investment income Key audit matter description Dividend income of 25.4m 2017: 25.7m represented 98.2% 2017: 99.2% of the total income of the Company see note 1.
Dividends from equity shares are accounted for on an ex-dividend basis.
Overseas dividends are accounted for on an ex-dividend basis and included gross of withholding tax.
There is a risk that investment income is incomplete which could have a material impact on the Companys net asset value.
We also identified this key audit matter as a potential fraud risk.
The description of the key audit matter above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee as discussed on page 34.
How the scope of our audit We have performed the following procedures to address this key audit matter: responded to the key audit critically assessed the design and implementation of the controls over matter revenue recognition including managements monitoring of the accuracy and completeness of revenue: for a sample of investments held, agreed the ex-dividend dates and rates for dividends declared during the year and agreed the amounts recorded within the general ledger to confirm that the recognition policy has been applied consistently: and agreed a sample of dividend income receipts to bank statements.
Key observations Based on the audit procedures performed, we concluded that recognition of investment income is appropriate.
indd 40 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 41 Independent Auditors Report continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 7.1m 2017: 7.5m Basis for 1% 2017: 1% of net assets.
determining materiality Rationale for the Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark benchmark applied for investors and is the key driver of shareholder value.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 143,000 2017: 150,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatements was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control environment in place at the administrator to the extent relevant to our audit.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information We have nothing to report comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial in respect of these matters.
statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
indd 41 07 12 2018 14:58 | 42 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued Other information In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
indd 42 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 43 Independent Auditors Report continued Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and noncompliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, the administrator and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Companys policies and procedures relating to: o identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: o detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: o other internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: Valuation of investments as an incorrect investment price could result in a material misstatement in the net asset value of the Company: and recognition of investment income as there is a potential risk that if investment income is manipulated so it is incomplete it could have a material impact on the Companys net asset value: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the Company operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Company.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included Companies Act 2006 and UK Listing Rules, as well as the Company qualification as an Investment Trust under UK tax legislation Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified the valuation of investments and recognition of investment income as the key audit matters where there is a potential fraud risk.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matter in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters.
Our procedures to respond to the risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management and the Audit Committee concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and reviewing correspondence with HMRC and the FCA: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
indd 43 07 12 2018 14:58 | 44 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion We have nothing to report certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
indd 44 07 12 2018 14:58 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 45 Independent Auditors Report continued Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 1 August 2002 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 October 2002 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 17 years, covering the years ending 31 October 2002 to 31 October 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Andrew Partridge CA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Edinburgh, United Kingdom 7 December 2018 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
indd 45 07 12 2018 14:58 | 46 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 164275 SIT AnRep18 PRINT.
