Financial Report Independent auditors report to the members of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Overview Materiality: 66.8m 2017: 53.9m We have audited the Financial Statements of Scottish Mortgage Financial Investment Trust PLC the Company for the year ended 31 1% 2017: 1% of Total Assets Statements as a March 2018, which comprise the Income Statement, Balance whole Sheet, Statement of Changes in Equity, Cash Flow Statement and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1, Risks of material misstatement which explains a revision in relation to a disclosure, on 22 May 2018.
Recurring risks Valuation of unlisted investments In our opinion the Financial Statements: Carrying amount of give a true and fair view seen as at the date the original listed investments Financial Statements were approved, of the state of Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of its return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland seen as at the date the original Financial Statements were approved: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 as it has effect under the Companies Revision of Defective Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were appointed as Auditor prior to 1991.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is at least the 28 financial years ended 31 March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Company in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial Statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2017, in decreasing order of significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Valuation of Unlisted Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: Investments 15.0% of the Companys total assets by Methodology choice: In the context of observed industry best 1,003.5 million: 2017: value are held in investments where no practice and the provisions of the International Private Equity and 700.2 million quoted market price is available.
Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines, we challenged the Unlisted investments are measured at appropriateness of the valuation basis selected: Refer to page 35 Audit fair value, which is established in Committee Report, accordance with the International Private Our valuations experience: Challenging the investment page 49 accounting Equity and Venture Capital Valuation manager on key judgements affecting investee company policy and pages 53, Guidelines by using measurements of valuations, such as discount factors and the choice of benchmark 54, and 62 financial value such as prices of recent orderly for earnings multiples.
We compared key underlying financial disclosures transactions, earnings multiples and net data inputs to external sources, investee company audited assets.
accounts and management information as applicable.
Our work included consideration of events which occurred subsequent to There is a significant risk over the the year end up until the date of this audit report: valuation of these investments.
Historical comparisons: Assessment of investment realisations in the period, comparing actual sales proceeds to prior year end valuations to understand the reasons for significant variances and determine whether they are indicative of bias or error in the companys approach to valuations: Comparing valuations: Where a recent transaction has been used to value a holding, we obtained an understanding of the circumstances surrounding the transaction and whether it was considered to be on an arms-length basis and suitable as an input into a valuation: and Assessing transparency: Consideration of the appropriateness, in accordance with relevant accounting standards, of the disclosures in respect of unlisted investments and the effect of changing one or more inputs to reasonably possible alternative valuation assumptions.
Our results We found the Companys valuation of unlisted investments to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Carrying amount of Low risk, high value Our procedures included: listed investments The Companys portfolio of listed Tests of Detail: Agreeing the valuation of 100 per cent of investments makes up 83.9% of the investments in the portfolio to externally quoted prices: and 5,610.0 million: 2017: Companys total assets by value and is Enquiry of custodians: Agreeing 100 per cent of investment 4,598.1 million considered to be one of the key drivers holdings in the portfolio to independently received third party of results.
We do not consider these confirmations from investment custodians or share Refer to page 35 Audit investments to be at a high risk of certificates for investments which have recently listed and Committee Report, significant misstatement, or to be where the investment custodians do not hold the certificate.
page 49 accounting subject to a significant level of policy and pages 53, judgement because they comprise liquid, Our results 54, and 62 financial listed investments.
However, due to We found the carrying amount of listed investments to be disclosures their materiality in the context of the acceptable 2017: acceptable.
financial statements as a whole, they are considered to be one of the areas which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and completing our audit.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 41 Financial Report 3.
Emphasis of matter revision of disclosure note if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out We draw attention to the disclosures made in note 1 to on page 34 is materially inconsistent with our audit these financial statements concerning the revision of the knowledge.
disclosure of the distributability of the realised capital reserves.
These financial statements replace the original We have nothing to report in these respects.
financial statements approved by the directors on 11 May 2018.
They have been prepared under the Regulations 6.
We have nothing to report on the other information in and accordingly do not take account of events which have the Annual Report taken place after the date on which the original financial statements were approved on 11 May 2018.
Our previous The Directors are responsible for the other information report was signed on that date.
We have not performed a presented in the Annual Report together with the Financial Statements.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does subsequent events review for the period from the date of our previous report to the date of this report.
not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our application of materiality and Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in an overview of the scope of our audit doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially Materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole was misstated or inconsistent with the Financial Statements or set at 66.8m, determined with reference to a benchmark our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have of total assets, of which it represents 1%.
not identified material misstatements in the other In addition, we applied materiality of 837,000 2017: information.
793,000 to income, investment management fees and Strategic report and directors report borrowing costs, for which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the Financial Based solely on our work on the other information: Statements as a whole could reasonably be expected to influence the Companys members assessment of the we have not identified material misstatements in the financial performance of the Company.
Strategic Report similarly revised in line with the change explained in note 1 and the Directors Report: We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the Financial 3.34m, in addition to other identified misstatements that Statements: and warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our audit of the Company was undertaken to the in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 seen as at materiality level specified above and was all performed at Baillie Gifford & Cos office in Edinburgh.
the date the original reports were approved.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in Total Assets Materiality accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
6,683.8m 66.8m Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability 66.8 m Based on the knowledge we acquired during our Financial Whole Financial Statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw Statements materiality attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on pages 9 and 10 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: 3.34m Misstatements reported the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks to the audit committee and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and 837k Total Assets the Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of Materiality on certain how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, Income Statement items over what period they have done so and why they noted above.
considered that period to be appropriate, and their 5.
We have nothing to report on going concern statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in We are required to report to you if: operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the we have anything material to add or draw attention to period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary in relation to the Directors statement in note 1 to the Financial Statements on the use of the going concern qualifications or assumptions.
basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the may cast significant doubt over the Companys use of Viability Statement.
that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: or We have nothing to report in this respect.
42 Annual Report 2018 Financial Report Corporate governance disclosures decisions of users taken on the basis of the Financial Statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is We are required to report to you if: provided on the FRCs website at www.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our Financial Statements The audit of revised Financial Statements also includes the audit and the Directors statement that they consider performance of procedures to assess whether the revisions that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken made by the Directors are appropriate and have been as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and properly made.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, Irregularities ability to detect business model and strategy: or We identified areas of laws and regulations that could the section of the Annual Report describing the work of reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the the Audit Committee does not appropriately address Financial Statements from our sector experience and matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
through discussion with the Directors, the manager and the administrator as required by auditing standards.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code affect the Financial Statements including financial reporting specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
including related company legislation as well as the companys qualification as an Investment Trust under UK We have nothing to report in these respects.
tax legislation, any breach of which could lead to the Company losing various deductions and exemptions from 7.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on UK corporation tax.
We considered the extent of which we are required to report by exception compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report procedures on the related Financial Statement items.
to you if, in our opinion: We communicated identified laws and regulations adequate accounting records have not been kept, or throughout our team which included individuals with returns adequate for our audit have not been received experience relevant to those laws and regulations, and from branches not visited by us: or remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nonagreement with the accounting records and returns: or detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the by law are not made: or override of internal controls.
we have not received all the information and 9.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe explanations we require for our audit.
our responsibilities We have nothing to report in these respects.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a 8.
Respective responsibilities body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and as required by paragraph 7 of the Directors responsibilities Regulations.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that As explained more fully in their statement set out on page we might state to the Companys members those matters 39, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the we are required to state to them in an auditors report and Financial Statements including being satisfied that they give for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, Statements that are free from material misstatement, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Companys have formed.
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
John Waterson Senior Statutory Auditor Auditors responsibilities for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about Chartered Accountants whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from Saltire Court material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other 20 Castle Terrace irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion Edinburgh in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level EH1 2EG of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit 22 May 2018 conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 43
