110 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEGRO PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion, SEGRO plcs Group Financial Statements and Company Financial Statements the Financial Statements : Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, asregards the Companys Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report & Accounts 2018 the Annual Report, which comprise: the Group and Company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2018: the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements, and the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in Note 6 to the Financial Statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 91.7 million 2017: 79.4 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Overall Company materiality: 72.6 million 2017: 68.6 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Materiality Group specific materiality: 12.1 2017: 9.7 million, based on 5% of adjusted profit before tax, for items impacting adjusted profit before tax.
Audit procedures on Rental Income and Valuation of Investment Properties are performed centrally by the Group audit team from the UK.
Audit scope Full scope audit of the SELP Joint Venture by local component auditors.
Specified procedures performed by local auditors.
Over 87% coverage of Assets, Liabilities, Income and Expenditure of the Group.
Key audit matters Large and or complex transactions.
111 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the Group and the Company and their industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to compliance with the Real Estate Investment Trust REIT status and SIIC regime see page 138 of the Annual Report, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements of the Group and Company.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements of the Group and Company such as the Companies Act 2006, the UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant components of the Group.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to increase revenue or reduce expenditure, and management bias in accounting estimates and judgemental areas of the financial statements such as valuation of investment properties.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors referred to in the scoping section of our report below, so that they could include appropriate audit procedures, where applicable, in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors included: Discussions with management and internal audit, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud, and review of the reports made by internal audit: Understanding managements internal controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities: Assessment of matters, if any, reported on the Groups whistleblowing helpline and the results of managements investigation of such matters: Reviewing the Groups litigation register in so far as it related to non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud: Reviewing relevant meeting minutes, including those of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee: Designing audit procedures to incorporate unpredictability around the nature, timing and extent of our testing of expenses: Review of tax compliance with the involvement of our tax specialists in the audit: Procedures relating to the valuation of investment properties described in the related key audit matter below: and Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account combinations or posted by users posting a low amount of journals in the period.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
112 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEGRO PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of investment properties Group Assessing the Valuers expertise and objectivity Refer to page 81 Audit Committee Report and the Financial We assessed the Valuers qualifications and expertise and read their terms of engagement with the Statements including notes to the Financial Statements: Group to determine whether there were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or Note1, Significant accounting policies: Note 13, Properties: may have imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also considered fees and other contractual andNote27, Property valuation techniques and related arrangements that might exist between the Group and the Valuers.
We found no evidence to suggest quantitative information.
that the objectivity of the Valuers was compromised.
The Groups investment properties were carried at Testing the valuations 7,801million as at 31 December 2018 and a total realised Assumptions and capital movement: and unrealised property gain of 853 million was recognised Our work covered the valuation of every material property in the Group.
in the Group income statement.
We focused on this area due We obtained and read the CBRE valuation reports covering every property.
to the existence of significant judgement, coupled with the fact We held meetings with management and the Valuers, at which the valuations and the key assumptions that only small differences in individual property valuations therein were discussed, focusing on the largest properties and any outliers where the assumptions when aggregated could result in material misstatement.
The used and or year on year capital value movement are out of line with externally published market data portfolio includes warehouses and light industrial buildings, for the relevant sector.
including warehouses used as data centres and for logistics To verify that the valuation approach was suitable for use in determining the carrying value for operations.
These are concentrated in the UK, France, Germany, investment properties in the Financial Statements, we: and Poland.
The remainder of the portfolio is located across other European countries including Spain, the Netherlands and Confirmed that the valuation approach was in accordance with RICS standards: the Czech Republic.
Obtained valuation details of every property held by the Group and set an expected range for yield The portfolio includes completed investments and properties and capital value movement, determined by reference to published benchmarks and using our under construction.
The methodology applied in determining experience and knowledge of the market.
Compared the investment yields used by the Valuers to the valuation is set out in Notes 13 and 27 of the Financial the expected range of yields and the year on year capital movement to our expected range: Statements.
The valuation of the Groups portfolio is inherently Assessed the reasonableness of other assumptions that are not so readily comparable with published subjective due to, among other factors, the individual nature benchmarks, such as Estimated Rental Value: and, of each property, its location and the expected future rentals Verified where there could be alternative use opportunities, that this had been appropriately taken for that particular property.
For developments, factors include into account.
projected costs to complete, time until practical completion and the ability to let if no pre-let agreement is in place.
Valuations Where assumptions were outside the expected range or otherwise appeared unusual, and or valuations are carried out by third party valuers, CBRE Ltd the Valuers.
showed unexpected movements, we undertook further investigations and, when necessary, held The Valuers were engaged by the Directors, and performed further discussions with the Valuers and obtained evidence to support explanations received.
The their work in accordance with the Royal Institute of Chartered supporting evidence and valuation commentaries provided by the Valuers, enabled us to consider the Surveyors RICS Valuation Professional Standards.
The property specific factors that had or may have had an impact on value, including recent comparable Valuers used by the Group have considerable experience of transactions where appropriate.
the markets in which the Group operates.
The valuations take Information and standing data: into account the property-specific information referred to We tested the standing data the Group provided to the Valuers for use in the performance of the above including the current tenancy agreements and rental valuation.
This involved re-performing controls on a sample basis over the input of lease data for leases income, condition and location of the property, and future and testing the accuracy of lease and other property information.
For development properties, we also rental prospects, as well as prevailing market yields and confirmed that the supporting information for construction contracts and budgets was consistent with markettransactions.
the Groups records, for example by inspecting original construction contracts.
For developments, capitalised expenditure was tested on a sample basis to invoices, and budgeted costs to complete were compared to supporting evidence for example construction contracts to support the inputs included within their valuation at the year end.
We agreed the amounts per the valuation reports to the accounting records and from there we agreed the related balances through to the Financial Statements.
Overall outcome Based on the work performed we found that the assumptions were supported by evidence weobtained.
113 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Large and or complex transactions Group For each large and or complex transaction, we made inquiries with management in order to Refer to page 81 Audit Committee Report and the Financial understand their nature and obtained supporting documentation as necessary to verify the Statements including notes to the Financial Statements: Note 1, transactions.
We assessed the proposed accounting treatment in relation to the Groups accounting Significant accounting policies and Note 13, Properties.
There policies and relevant IFRSs.
were a number of transactions during the year which warranted Acquisitions and disposals particular additional audit focus due to the magnitude of the We tested acquisitions and disposals of investment properties by examining: transactions and or the potential for complex contractual terms Sale and Purchase Agreements and completion statements: and that introduce judgement into how they were accounted for.
Key transactions subject to additional audit focus were: Bank statements to agree consideration received or paid.
Acquisition of investment property assets for 194 million: and Overall outcome No material issues were identified as a result of our testing.
Disposal of investment property assets of 432 million.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Groups reportable segments are the geographical Business Units: Greater London, Thames Valley, National Logistics, Northern Europe, Southern Europe and Central Europe.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group operates a common IT environment, processes and controls for rental income and payroll across all its reported segments.
The Groups valuation and treasury functions are also based at the corporate centre in the UK.
The related balances were therefore audited by the Group audit team from the UK, using Computer Assisted Audit Techniques for the work on rental income.
Additional specified procedures were performed by audit teams on location in each business unit, such that the total testing programme provided sufficient audit evidence over all financial statement line items.
The SELP Joint Venture was included as being in scope for a full scope audit, with the work on rental income and valuation of investment properties for the Joint Venture performed by the Group audit team.
Throughout the audit process, the Group audit team has had various interactions with the audit teams on location in each business unit to oversee the audit process.
Taking into account the components and Joint Ventures subject to a full scope audit, the centralised and other testing performed, coverage over the Group Balance Sheet and Group Income Statement was as follows: Assets 98% coverage Liabilities 97% coverage Income 99% coverage Expenditure 87% coverage The audit of the Company Financial Statements was performed entirely by the Group audit team in the UK, leveraging on the work performed on the Group audit where appropriate with additional audit procedures performed on other Company specific balances.
114 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEGRO PLC CONTINUED Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Overall materiality 91.7 million 2017: 79.4 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied The primary measurement attribute of the Group is the The primary measurement attribute of the Company is the carrying value of property investments.
On this basis, we set carrying value of investments in subsidiaries.
On this basis, we set an overall Group materiality level based on total assets.
an overall Company materiality level based on total assets.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 35.0 million and 82.5 million.
In addition, we set a specific overall materiality level of 12.1 million 2017: 9.7 million, equating to 5 per cent of adjusted profit before tax, for items impacting adjusted profit before tax.
In arriving at this judgement we had regard to the fact that the adjusted profit before tax is a secondary financial indicator of the Group refer to Note 2 of the Financial Statements on pages 128 and 129 where the term is defined in full.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 4.6 million Group audit 2017: 4.0 million or 1.0 million 2017: 1.0 million in the case of misstatements impacting adjusted profit before tax, and 3.6 million Company audit 2017: 3.4 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of the We have nothing material to add or to draw attention Directors statement in the Financial Statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to.
However, because not all future events or conditions to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements and the Directors canbe predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going tothe Groups and Companys ability to continue as a concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to going concern in accordance with Listing We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the Financial Statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
115 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31December 2018 is consistent with the Financial Statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 60 to 108 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the Financial Statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 60 to 108 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 53 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 55 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and whythey consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 108, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 79 to 83 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the AuditCommittee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 116 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEGRO PLC CONTINUED RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 108, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the members on 22 April 2016 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 3 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2018.
CRAIG HUGHES SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF  LLP CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND STATUTORY AUDITORS LONDON 14 FEBRUARY 2019
