Independent Auditors Report to the members of Serco Group plc Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Serco Group plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and parent Company Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in notes 2 and 39.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the directors on 27 May 2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the three financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Key audit matters: our Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessment of risks of material assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, misstatement including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters amended since 2017 to include The impact of uncertainties due to Britain exiting the European Union on our audit and Classification of Exceptional Items and to remove Retirement Benefit Surplus to reflect the reducing level of judgement involved, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and our findings from those procedures in order that the Companys members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
These matters were addressed, and our findings are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
| 140 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The impact of uncertainties due to UK exiting the European Union on our audit A new key audit matter identified in 2018.
Refer to page 54 principal risks The risk Our response We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the consideration Unprecedented levels of uncertainty of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning and performing our All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness audits.
Our procedures included: of estimates, in particular as described in Our Brexit knowledge: We considered the directors assessment of Recoverability of group goodwill and of parents Brexit-related sources of risk for the Groups business and financial investment in subsidiaries below, and related resources compared with our own understanding of the risks.
We disclosures and the appropriateness of the going considered the directors plans to take action to mitigate the risks.
concern basis of preparation of the financial statements see below.
All of these depend on Sensitivity analysis: When addressing Recoverability of group assessments of the future economic environment goodwill and of parents investment in subsidiaries and other areas and the Groups future prospects and performance.
that depend on forecasts, we compared the directors sensitivity analysis to our assessment of the full range of reasonably possible In addition, we are required to consider the other scenarios resulting from Brexit uncertainty and, where forecast cash information presented in the Annual Report flows are required to be discounted, considered adjustments to including the principal risks disclosure and the discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.
viability statement and to consider the directors statement that the annual report and financial Assessing transparency: As well as assessing individual disclosures statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and as part of our procedures on Recoverability of group goodwill and of understandable and provides the information parents investment in subsidiaries we considered all of the Brexit necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups related disclosures together, including those in the strategic report, position and performance, business model and comparing the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
Our findings As reported under Recoverability of group goodwill and of parents Brexit is one of the most significant economic investment in subsidiaries, we found the resulting estimates and related events for the UK and at the date of this report its disclosures of the carrying value of goodwill and disclosures in relation effects are subject to unprecedented levels of to going concern to be balanced.
However, no audit should be uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range of expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future possible effects unknown.
implications for a Group and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 141 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Serco Group plc Revenue and margin recognition Revenue 2,836.8m 2017 restated: 2,950.9m, operating profit 80.5m 2017 restated: 21.1m and Onerous Contract Provisions of 82.1m 2017 restated: 148.1m Assessment of risk vs. prior year: Unchanged 2017 balances have been restated for the adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Refer to page 97 Audit Committee Report, pages 157 to 161 and 163 to 164 accounting policy, page 171 key judgements, pages 196 to 197 contract assets, trade and other receivables note in the financial statements and page 200 provisions note in the financial statements The risk Our response Subjective estimate Our procedures included: Contracts were selected for substantive audit procedures based on qualitative The contractual arrangements that factors, such as commercial complexity, and quantitative factors, such as financial underpin the measurement and significance and profitability that we considered to be indicative of risk.
Our audit recognition of revenue by the Group can testing for the contracts selected included the following: be complex, with significant judgements Assessing policy application: We inspected the contract agreements to involved in the assessment of current and challenge the method of revenue recognition in accordance with IFRS 15 future financial performance of those adopted by the Group including, where relevant, the allocation of revenue contracts.
The key judgements impacting across contractual obligations and compared the specific method used to the recognition of revenue and resulting Group policy.
operating profit include: Interpretations of terms and conditions Independent reperformance: Where percentage of completion is used, we in relation to the required service re-calculated the stage of completion on the basis of actual costs and latest obligations in accordance with cost forecasts to inform our assessment of the appropriate amount of revenue contractual arrangements: and profit to recognise and compared this to the amounts recorded by the Group.
The identification of performance obligations within contracts and the Accounting analysis: We assessed whether the revenue recognition allocation of revenue and costs to methodology applied was consistent with IFRS 15 accounting standard, performance obligations where including restated balances in prior year.
We also inspected and challenged multiple deliverables exist: accounting papers prepared by the Group to understand the support and corroborate the position provided in respect of key contract judgements and Assessment of stage of completion and onerous contract provisions.
cost to complete, where percentage completion accounting is used: Tests of details: We inspected a sample of correspondence with customers and third parties, in instances where contractual variations and Consideration of the Groups claims have arisen, to inform our assessment of performance against contractual the revenue and costs recorded up to the balance sheet date.
obligations and the impact on revenue and costs of delivery: and Site visits: We visited key contract locations and attended a sample of monthly Divisional and Business Unit Performance Reviews used to assess business The recognition and recoverability performance to inform our assessment of operational and financial risks.
assessments of contract related assets, including those recognised as direct For onerous and potentially onerous contracts identified through application of incremental costs prior to service quantitative selection criteria, our procedures also included: commencement.
Benchmarking assumptions: We compared contract level forecast revenues and costs to Group budgets and forecasts approved by the directors.
We Where an onerous contract provision is challenged key assumptions made by the Group in preparing these forecasts, required, judgement is required in including assessing the level of provision, including those in relation to revenue growth and cost reductions, checking to external estimated cost to complete taking into evidence where possible and obtaining supporting plans where appropriate.
account contractual obligations to the end of the contract, extension periods Our sector experience: We assessed the contractual terms and customer negotiations.
and conditions to identify the key obligations of the contract to inform our challenge of completeness of forecast costs and cost accruals recorded at the balance sheet date.
| 142 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The risk Our response The effect of these matters is that, as part Historical comparisons: We compared the contract forecasts to historic and of our risk assessment, we determined that in year performance to assess the historical accuracy of the forecasts.
onerous contract provisions has a high Tests of details: We assessed the mathematical accuracy of the models used degree of estimation uncertainty, with a to forecast contract revenues and costs.
potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the Independent reperformance: We compared the forecast margin to the financial statements as a whole, and cumulative margin recognised up to the balance sheet date to assess whether possibly many times that amount.
provisions for loss-making contracts had been appropriately recorded and, in the case of profitable contracts, that margin recognised to date did not exceed the forecast.
For selected contract related assets, representing capitalised bid and phase in costs, our procedures included: Assessing application: We assessed whether these had been recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy and relevant accounting standards.
Comparing valuations: We inspected actual and forecast contractual cash flows and profits to assess whether these supported the carrying value of the assets.
Historical comparisons: We inspected the underlying contracts to inform our assessment of the forecast cash flows, and compared actual cash flows to forecasts to assess reasonableness.
Independent reperformance: We compared the amortisation period with the duration of the contract and checked that the amortisation had been calculated correctly.
Assessing transparency: We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the estimates and judgements applied reflected the risks related to revenue and margin recognition.
Our findings In determining the application of the Groups revenue recognition policy, there is room for judgement and we found that within that, the Groups judgement for revenue recognised was balanced based on our analysis of the level of prudence within the key contract judgements and the impact of those judgements on the financial statements across the portfolio.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 143 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Serco Group plc Recoverability of group goodwill and of parents investment in subsidiaries Group: 579.6m 2017: 551.3m : parent Company: 2,021.7m 2017: 2,010.5m Assessment of risk vs. prior year: Unchanged Refer to page 97 Audit Committee Report, page 165 accounting policy, page 166 key judgements and pages 191 to 193 Goodwill note in the financial statements The risk Our response Our procedures included: Forecast-based valuation Identification of CGUs: We assessed whether managements identification of Goodwill in the Group and the CGUs, and the group of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated for impairment carrying amount of the parent purposes, is consistent with the level at which performance is monitored for internal Companys investments in management purposes following the reorganisation of the Groups organisational subsidiaries are significant and at risk structure and the requirements of IAS 36. of irrecoverability due to Brexit uncertainty regarding contract Benchmarking assumptions: With the assistance of our valuation specialists, we attrition, new contract wins and challenged the growth rate and discount rate for each CGU used in the value in use extension rates, and the impact of calculation by comparing the Groups assumptions to external data.
We challenged the Groups transformation forecast assumptions around new contract wins or extensions, contract attrition, programme to reduce operating cost reductions and the allocation of central costs.
Historical comparisons: We compared current actual cash flows to historic The estimated recoverable amount forecasts to assess the historical accuracy in the impairment model and we have of these balances through value in also reviewed forecast cash flows against budgets.
use calculations is subjective due to Sensitivity analysis: We tested the sensitivity of impairment calculations to changes the inherent uncertainty involved in in key underlying assumptions, which were discount rate and terminal growth rate forecasting and discounting future for all CGUs.
For CGUs that had the lowest headroom, which were: Health and cash flows.
Direct Services, we sensitised the five year cash flow forecasts by eliminating new wins within the pipeline.
The cash generating units CGUs which were most sensitive to a Comparing valuations: We considered whether the forecast cash flow assumptions deterioration in the divisions used in the value in use calculation were consistent with the assumptions used to projections or an increase in discount calculate the expected loss on onerous contract provisions, the recognition of rate were the Health CGU and Direct deferred tax assets and the Directors assessment of going concern and viability.
As at year end 31 The value in use derived was compared to the appropriate goodwill and December 2018, the Health CGU has investments carrying value to identify any impairment.
headroom of 65m and Direct Assessing transparency: We also assessed whether the Groups and parent Services has headroom of 42m.
Companys disclosures about the sensitivity of outcomes reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill and investment in subsidiaries.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we Our findings: determined that the value in use of We found the Groups assumptions applied for the purposes of estimating recoverable goodwill is 1,444m and value in use amount of Group goodwill and of parents investment in subsidiaries to be balanced of investments in subsidiaries is with a recoverable amount exceeding the book value by 820m and 766m 1,996m.
Our independent assessment of the growth assumptions indicates investments in subsidiaries have a sufficient headroom when sensitised for new contract wins later in the forecast period.
high degree of estimation We found that the disclosures describing the inherent degree of subjectivity in the uncertainty, with a potential range of estimates and the potential impact of reasonably possible changes in key assumptions reasonable outcomes greater than to be proportionate.
our materiality for the financial statements as a whole, and possibly many times that amount.
The financial statements note 18 disclose the sensitivity for goodwill estimated by the Group.
| 144 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Classification of Exceptional Items 31.9m 2017: 19.6m Assessment of risk vs. prior year: increased A new key audit matter identified in 2018.
Refer to page 98 Audit Committee Report, page 172 key judgements and pages 183 to 184 Exceptional items note in the financial statements The risk Our response Presentation appropriateness Our procedures included: Accounting analysis: We assessed whether the accounting policy applied is Significant judgement is involved in consistent with guidance issued from the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
We also determining the classification of inspected accounting papers prepared by the Group to understand the support exceptional items in the financial provided in respect of key judgements taken and assumptions made.
statements, and accurately identifying specific elements for Assessing policy application: We inspected the classification of items adopted by inclusion within exceptional items.
the Group including, where relevant, the identification of specific cost items within Accordingly we consider this area to the overall classification and compared the specific method used to Group policy.
be particularly susceptible to the risk Tests of details: We inspected a sample of items included within exceptional items of management bias.
to ensure recognition is in line with Group policy.
This included, amongst others, sample testing items included under restructuring to check that these are wholly and exclusively incurred for the purposes of the Transformation Programme.
Consistent application: We compared the classification of exceptional items where these relate to, or bear similar characteristics to, historical items to check that these are treated in a consistent manner.
Assessing transparency: We also assessed whether the Groups disclosures regarding the classification of exceptional items appropriately reflects the judgements made.
Our findings: In determining the treatment of profit or loss items under the Groups accounting policy, there is room for judgement.
We found that the Groups judgement was balanced.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 145 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Serco Group plc The risk Our response Our application of materiality Materiality and an overview of the scope Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 5 million 2017: 5 of our audit million, determined with reference to a normalised benchmark of Group Profit Before Tax and Exceptional Items taking into account historical financial performance and the Groups current profit margins in light of the Groups ongoing Strategy Review.
The group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised group profit before tax.
This materiality represents 5.1% 2017: 12.9% of Group Profit Before Tax and Exceptional Items of 98.5 million 2017: 38.7 million as originally reported in that year.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 4.5 million 2017: 4.5 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of company total assets of 2,449.9 million 2017: 2,457.0 million, of which it represents 0.2% 2017: 0.2%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.25 million 2017: 0.25 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scope of our audit Of the Groups 10 2017: 8 reporting components, we subjected 10 2017: 6 to full scope audits for Group purposes.
These 10 2017: 6 components represent approximately 100% 2017: 99.8% of the Groups Revenue, 100% 2017: 99.4% of Group profit before tax and 100% 2017: 98.4% of Group total assets.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved component materiality levels, which ranged from 2.0 million to 3.6 million 2017: 2.0 million to 3.6 million having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 4 of the 6 components 2017: 4 of the 6 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
The Group team visited all 2017: all component locations to assess the audit risk and strategy and also performed reviews over all file reviews at year end.
Video and telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors.
At these visits, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
The Group operates a shared service centre in India, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the reporting components it services and therefore it is not a separate reporting component.
The shared service centre is subject to specified risk-focused audit procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing and review controls.
Additional procedures are performed at certain reporting components to address the audit risks not covered by the work performed over the shared service centre.
| 146 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The risk Our response We have nothing to report on The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as going concern they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue in operation.
In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Companys financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period.
The risks that we considered most likely to adversely affect the Groups and Companys available financial resources over this period were: The impact of a significant reduction in contract profitability arising from the one, or a combination of, the principal risks outlined in the Groups strategic on page 54, including the early termination of contracts: and The impact of a material legal and regulatory compliance failure.
As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt on the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we considered sensitivities over the level of available financial resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking account of reasonably possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these risks individually and collectively and evaluated the achievability of the actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position should the risks materialise.
We also considered less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as the impact of Brexit and political and policy changes in Sercos markets.
Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 137 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 147 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Serco Group plc The risk Our response We have nothing to report on The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report the other information in the together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion Annual Report or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on page 64 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
| 148 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The risk Our response We have nothing to report on Corporate governance disclosures the other information in the We are required to report to you if: Annual Report continued we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Report does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report in Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns respect of the matters on which adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or we are required to report by exception the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 150, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 149 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Serco Group plc The risk Our response Respective responsibilities Irregularities ability to detect continued We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: anti-bribery, employment law, and certain aspects of company legislation.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
The purpose of our audit work This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement by and to whom we owe our the Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the responsibilities Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and the further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with the terms agreed by the Company and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
John Luke Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 20 February 2019 | 150 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
