Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Severn Trent Plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated and parent company statements of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: the consolidated cash flow statement: and the related notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 to 47 and the related notes to the parent company financial statements 1 to 18.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Accuracy of wholesale revenue for non-household customers in the new water market: Valuation of the provision for trade receivables in Severn Trent Water Limited: Valuation of the groups retirement benefit obligations: and Classification and valuation of capital expenditure in Severn Trent Water Limited.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year are identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 18 million 2017: 18 million which was determined on the basis of profit before tax, gains losses on financial instruments and exceptional items.
Scoping Our audit scoping has resulted in over 90% of the groups net operating assets and profit before tax being subject to audittesting.
Significant changes The group disposed of its Operating Services US business on 30 June 2017 and therefore it has not been subject to a in our approach component audit for the year ended 31 March 2018.
There have been no other significant changes to our scoping approach.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2a to the financial statements and page 59 of the Strategic report about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 andreport if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
136 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, weare required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 60 to 65 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 60 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on pages 58 and 59 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The following key audit matters from the prior year have not been included in the current year: revenue recognition in relation to the estimation of unbilled metered revenue in Severn Trent Water Limited on the basis that the difference between the amount accrued and subsequently billed has consistently represented approximately 1% of the accrued income over a number of consecutive years: and the valuation of current and deferred tax balances following the settlement of open enquires with HMRC in the prior year.
Accuracy of wholesale revenue for non-household customers in the new water market Key audit matter description On 1 April 2017 the new water retail market opened in England, allowing eligible non-household customers the opportunity to choose their water retailer for the first time.
Market Operator Services Limited MOSL was established to facilitate the switching of customers, and also to provide a service to settle accounts between water wholesalers and retailers.
Severn Trent Water is a wholesaler.
Management have recorded manual adjustments to revenue compared tothe information provided by MOSLs Core Market Operating System CMOS.
Non-household revenue for the year ended 31 March 2018 is 371.4 million as disclosed on page 85.
The key audit matter has been focussed on whether manual adjustments made to revenue are accurate.
Due to the high level of judgement involved, we have determined that there was a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of this balance.
The Audit Committee also considered this as a significant issue as discussed in the Audit Committee Report on page 85.
How the scope of our We have challenged the assumptions applied and the integrity of managements calculation of the adjustments by auditresponded to the performing the following: keyaudit matter evaluated the design and implementation of key controls over the adjustments to revenue: understood and audited reconciling items between volume and revenue recorded by Severn Trent Water Limited and the information provided by CMOS, specifically recalculating the extrapolation based on settlement reports received: inquired as to whether any Market Operator disputes or Market Arrangement Code disputes are open at the year end date which could indicate that revenue has been incorrectly recorded: reviewed and challenged the information used to build up the model by considering the accuracy and completeness of the source data used for calculating the adjustments: tested the completeness of adjustments by reference to operational data: and benchmarked the direction of the adjustment across the industry and made direct enquiries of management of the Groups joint venture, WaterPlus, of adjustments being recorded by them.
Key observations We are satisfied that managements manual adjustments to revenue are appropriate.
Valuation of the provision for trade receivables in Severn Trent Water Limited Key audit matter description A proportion of Severn Trent Water Limiteds customers do not or cannot pay their bills which results in the need for provisions to be made for non-payment of the customer balance.
Management makes estimates regarding future cash collection when calculating the bad debt provision.
The value of the provision for trade receivables in Severn Trent Water at 31 March 2018 is 124.5 million of the total provision of 129.0 million 31March 2017 125.4 million of the total provision of 130.5 million in note 21.
Provisions are made against Severn Trent Water Limiteds trade receivables based on historical experience of levels of recovery from accounts in particular ageing categories.
The key audit matter has been focused on the determination of the ageing of trade receivables balances as this determines the level of provisioning to be recorded and the historical cash collection rates applied to the aged debt.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 137 Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc continued How the scope of our We challenged and tested the information used to determine the bad debt provision by considering cash collection audit responded to performance against historical trends and the level of bad debt charges over time.
Specifically, we analysed the actual the key audit matter experience of slow paying customers in the period using data analytics to consider the collection of debtors that were previously in each aged category.
We have also: evaluated the design and implementation of key management review controls over the bad debt model and managements bad debt paper: reconciled the debtor ageing for each debt category used in the bad debt provision model using source data from Severn Trents customer billing system: audited the information used in calculating the bad debt provision to assess whether it was updated for current cash collection performance: assessed and audited the rationale for changes to the basis of estimation where changes were made to the bad debt calculation in the current year to reflect historical cash collection patterns for debts with certain characteristics: compared and assessed the payment profile and level of bad debt provision with those established in previous periods: considered whether the provision appropriately covered any exposure inherent in the accrued income element of the debtor balance: deployed our spreadsheet analyser tool to identify anomalies in the bad debt model for further consideration: and considered whether any of the changes to the estimation in the year represented changes in accounting policy or material error, which required reassessment of the historical position.
Key observations We are satisfied that the assumptions applied in assessing the impairment of trade receivables and the calculation of the ageing of trade receivable are appropriate and no additional provision was identified from the audit work performed.
Valuation of the groups retirement benefit obligations Key audit matter description This is an area involving significant estimation because the process is complex and requires management after taking advice from their actuarial advisers to make a number of assumptions concerning the discount rate, inflation and pension increases, and the longevity of current pensioners in order to determine the value of the schemes liabilities.
Thekey audit matter is focused on the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities and the appropriateness of the actuarial assumptions that are used to calculate it, specifically with reference to the discount rate.
The groups retirement benefit obligation at 31 March 2018 is 519.8 million 31 March 2017 574.6 million as per note 28 Retired Benefit Schemes.
The Audit Committee also considered this as a significant issue as discussed in the Audit Committee Report on page 86.
Management has included this as a key source of estimation uncertainty in note 4 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our We have challenged the assumptions applied by performing the following procedures: audit responded to the evaluated the design and implementation of key controls and with support from the pension specialists within our key audit matter audit team, we challenged the assumptions used in the calculation of the pension scheme deficit as detailed in note 28, specifically challenging the discount rate with reference to comparable market and other third party data: and assessed whether there had been any changes in the methodology to determine the assumptions since the prior year.
Key observations We are satisfied that managements assumptions in the valuation of the retirement benefit obligation, including discount rates, are appropriate and within a reasonable range.
Classification and valuation of capital expenditure in Severn Trent Water Limited Key audit matter description Severn Trent Water Limited has a substantial capital programme which has been agreed with the regulator Ofwat and therefore incurs significant expenditure in relation to the development and maintenance of both infrastructure and non-infrastructure assets.
Property, plant and equipment PPE additions in Severn Trent Water Limited were 663.2 million of the total additions of 691.2 million disclosed in note 18 541.5 million of 583.9 million at 31 March 2017.
Expenditure in relation to increasing the capacity or enhancing the network is treated as capital expenditure.
Capital projects may contain a combination of enhancement and maintenance activity which are not distinct and therefore there is a key audit matter that PPE is valued incorrectly as a result of items of operating expenditure being misclassified.
Due to the level of judgement involved, we have determined that there was a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of this balance.
The Audit Committee also considered this a significant issue as discussed in the Audit Committee Report on page 85.
Management has included this as a critical judgement in note 4 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our We performed the following procedures to respond to the key audit matter: audit responded to the we assessed the groups capitalisation policy to determine compliance with relevant accounting standards: key audit matter we evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the application of the policy to expenditure incurred on projects within the groups capital programme during the year: for a sample of capital projects, we assessed the application of the capitalisation policy to the costs incurred by understanding the initial business case for the project and ensuring that it had been approved by the relevant capital programme board: and we agreed a sample of costs to third party invoices and assessed whether the split between capital and operating expenditure was aligned to the original approved business plan.
Key observations We are satisfied that the valuation and classification of assets capitalised in the year is appropriate.
138 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of ourwork.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 18 million 2017: 18 million 16.2 million 2017: 16.2 million Basis for determining materiality Approximately 5.6% 2017: approximately 5.7% of 3.0% of net assets 2017: 3.0% capped to 90% profitbefore tax, gains losses on financial instruments ofgroupmateriality.
Rationale for the As in 2017, profit before tax, gains losses on financial The parent company does not trade or exist for profit benchmark applied instruments and exceptional items has been used in order generating purposes so materiality has been determined to focus on the groups underlying trading performance using net assets.
consistent with the groups internal and external reporting.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report profit before tax to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 750,000 321.7 million 2017: 750,000 for the group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on Group materiality 18 million qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing Component materiality range the overall presentation of the financial statements.
0.04 million to 16.2 million Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.75 million profit before tax Group materiality Represents profit before tax, gains losses on financial instruments and exceptional items An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Regulated Water and Waste Water is primarily comprised of Severn Trent Water Limited and Dee Valley Water Limited which were subject to a full scope audit using a materiality of 15m and 0.4m respectively.
We have audited a further 10 components using individual statutory materialities which range from 44,000 to 9,000,000.
Operating Services US was disposed on 30 June 2017 contributing 42.1 million of revenue and profit before interest and tax of 1.4million and was subject to analytical review.
This represents over 90% 2017: over 90% of the groups net operating assets and profit before tax, gains losses on financial instruments andexceptionalitems.
We also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to full scope audit procedures.
Our scoping is consistent with the prior year except that Water Plus Limited, Derwent Insurance Limited and Lyra Insurance Guernsey Limited have not been audited by separate component teams in 2018.
They are subject to audit procedures performed by the Group audit team.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 139 Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc continued Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure We were appointed by the Company at its annual general meeting on 26 July 2005 to audit the financial statements of the Company for the year ending 31March 2006 and subsequent financial periods.
Following a competitive tender process, we were reappointed as auditor of the Company for the year ending31 March 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
Our total uninterrupted period of engagement is 13 years, covering periods from our initial appointment through to the year ending 31 March 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Kari Hale, ACA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 22 May 2018 140 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
