FINANCIALS Independent Auditors Report To the members of SIG plc Opinion In our opinion: SIG plcs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements of SIG plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 Company statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2018 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2018 Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 Company statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2018 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended Related Notes 1 to 14 to the financial statements including a 31 December 2018 summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated cashflow statement for the year ended 31 December 2018 Related notes 1 to 33 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 46-47 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 44-45 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 40 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 40 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
com Stock code: SHI 183 Independent Auditors Report To the members of SIG plc Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Prior year adjustments Supplier rebates Classification of Other items in the Income Statement Cash cut-off Impairment of Goodwill, Intangible assets and Property, Plant and Equipment Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 8 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 6 components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 94% of Underlying Profit before Tax and property profits, 92% of Revenue and 95% of Total Assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 3.6m which represents 5% of Underlying Profit before Tax, excluding property profits.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Prior Year Adjustments Our audit procedures were designed and performed to allow us to conclude The audit procedures we performed whether the circumstances and evidence available could give rise to adjustments identified material misstatements Refer to Accounting policies which would require retrospective restatement under IAS 8: Accounting Policies, which required prior year page 113 : and Note 33 of Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
adjustment in accordance with the the Consolidated Financial requirements of IAS 8.
Statements page 181 Our response to the risk of material misstatement in the opening Balance Sheet included the following audit procedures: The nature of these prior year Our appointment as adjustments, and the financial auditors to SIG plc Review of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, audit workpapers of the impact upon the Income Statement followed the reporting predecessor auditor and Group Accounting policies.
and Balance Sheet at each reporting of significant prior year Obtaining SIG plcs accounting papers, associated contractual and legal date, are detailed in Note 33 to the adjustments relating to documents, and journal entries in relation to one-off transactions impacting Annual Report.
These adjustments 2016 and earlier which the 2017 Result and Net Debt position.
These transactions included property relate to the: were reported within the sale and leaseback transactions and supply chain financing.
We examined 2017 Annual Report and Restatement of two property the underlying documentation to assess whether these transactions had Accounts.
These prior year sale and leaseback transactions, been accounted for appropriately.
Obtaining SIG plcs accounting papers in adjustments highlighted previously treated as operating relation to uncertain tax positions, including associated correspondence with weaknesses in SIG plcs leases, now accounted for as finance the relevant tax authorities.
We examined the underlying documentation to control environment and leases.
assess whether provisions were appropriately recorded in the Balance Sheet.
Performing substantive tests of detail over cut-off in relation to cash and Reclassification of supply chain Our Interim review for the net debt as at 31 December 2017, with a particular focus on cheque and financing transactions from Trade 6-month period ended 30 BACS payments and receipts.
Our audit procedures included obtaining Payables to within Other Financial June 2018 identified further bank confirmation letters for all accounts within the UK Distribution and UK Liabilities and inclusion within Net prior year adjustments Exteriors operating companies.
relating to the 31 Obtaining detail of all property leases within UK Distribution and UK Exteriors Release of provisions for uncertain December 2017 Balance operating companies, including SIG plcs assessment of the existence of tax positions where it was not Sheet.
In this context, we contractual obligations which require a provision for dilapidations to be probable that a liability would arise.
We performed audit procedures which included confirming procedures in relation to Restatement of cash to exclude a sample of leases back to contracts to confirm whether dilapidation the comparative amounts cash in transit where SIG was not in obligations were present.
We obtained SIG plcs accounting paper in relation and opening balances.
to the valuation of any such liabilities and critically challenged the significant assumptions within this assessment.
We performed tests of detail to Recognition of a provision and corroborate settlement costs incurred in 2018 and previous reporting periods.
related asset for contractual Obtaining and critically challenging SIG plcs accounting papers against the obligations in respect of dilapidation requirements of the new standard in relation to the transition to IFRS 15, costs within property leases in the including the treatment of early settlement discounts.
Recognition of early settlement discounts at point of sale rather than when settled.
184 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 FINANCIALS FINANCIALS Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Supplier Rebates We focused our audit procedures on the areas where Management apply The results of our testing were judgement, where the processing is either manual or more complex and satisfactory and we therefore Refer to Accounting policies where the value in supplier rebate terms of agreements is high, such as nonconclude that supplier rebate page 119 : and Note 16 coterminous year ends.
amounts are appropriately & 17 of the Consolidated recognised in the Income Financial Statements pages We performed walkthroughs to understand the key processes used to record Statement and Balance Sheet 150 & 152 supplier rebate transactions and identify key controls.
and the disclosures included are appropriate.
The Group recognised We performed analytical review procedures to understand unusual movements supplier rebate income in in income statement and balance sheet accounts period on period, including the year of 318.1m 2017: ageing analysis.
363.2m with a receivable We selected a sample of suppliers in order to obtain independent confirmations balance as at 31 December to confirm key terms, income and year end receivable.
We reconciled income recognised in the period, for the sample of suppliers, based on agreed arrangement terms, income and receivable as confirmed by the The Groups supply chain supplier.
Using confirmed amounts we ensured the appropriate tier was applied.
pricing structure includes rebate arrangements with Where third party vendor confirmation could not be obtained for the sample we: suppliers.
The terms of Obtained and reviewed the agreement signed by both parties.
agreements with suppliers can be complex and varied.
Validated the purchase volumes used in the calculation of income through Estimation uncertainty sample testing to supporting documentation.
is present in relation Recalculated the year end rebate receivable and income recognised in the to supplier rebates, in year based on the validated volumes and the terms of the signed agreement.
particular where amounts receivable are tiered based Using data extracted from the accounting system, we tested the appropriateness on volumes purchased of a sample of journal entries and other adjustments to supplier rebate accounts or where volumes are in the Balance Sheet and Income Statement.
estimated, for example We reviewed the appropriateness of the critical accounting judgements and where arrangements key sources of estimation uncertainty disclosure in respect of supplier rebate span the year end.
There amounts recorded in the income statement and balance sheet.
is opportunity through management override We performed the above audit procedures over this risk area at 8 full and of controls or error to specific scope locations, which covered 97% of the risk amount.
overstate the balance of supplier rebates recognised.
com Stock code: SHI 185 Independent Auditors Report To the members of SIG plc Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Classification of Other We performed walkthroughs to understand the key processes used to record As a result of our audit procedures items in the Income Other items and identify key controls.
we requested that adjustments Statement amounting to 0.8m be made We obtained evidence of a sample of the Other items to understand the nature to reclassify costs to underlying.
Refer to Accounting policies of these items and have challenged the appropriateness of separately presenting The Groups disclosures are in page 118 : and Note 2 of these items within Other items in line with the Groups accounting policy.
compliance with theGroups the Consolidated Financial accounting policy, consistent with We have considered the consistency of SIG plcs approach with reference to Statements page 132 the guidance in IAS 1 and has been Other Items in the prior year.
Other items in 2018 totals Where an item related to a restructuring project, we inspected the build-up to 46.8m 2017: 124.1m.
ensure that the costs were: Key components include: restructuring costs 27.7m, Attributable to the restructuring project: amortisation of goodwill Incremental in nature, either directly or indirectly: and intangibles 8.9m, Qualify for recognition in the financial statements for the period: divestments 6.7m, net operating profit of nonHave been correctly categorised as a cost or as an Other item in line with the core businesses 1.2m accounting policy.
We have recalculated the amortisation charge in the year and confirmed this is Other items are not consistent with the Group accounting policy.
defined by IFRS and We obtained calculations of profit or loss on divestment.
We agreed divestments therefore judgement is to sale agreements and validated the calculation of profit loss on sale to required in determining supporting documentation.
We performed analytical review procedures to the appropriateness of understand unusual movements in the income statements of divested and nonsuch classification guided core businesses separately presented as an Other item.
Consistency in items treated as separately We reviewed managements accounting policy disclosure in respect of Other disclosed is important item classification in the Income Statement.
tomaintain comparability We performed the above audit procedures over this risk area at all full and of reporting year-on-year.
specific scope locations, which covered 100% of the risk amount.
Underlying profit is a key performance measure of the Group.
There exists a risk through management override of controls or bias of judgement of inappropriate classification of these items separately to overstate underlying profit.
186 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 FINANCIALS FINANCIALS Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Cash cut-off We performed walkthroughs to understand the key processes used to record Our audit procedures identified cash cash transactions and identify key controls including visiting and performing cut off audit adjustments in the UK Refer to Accounting policies procedures at the outsourced shared service centre in Chennai.
page 121 : and Note 19 of the Consolidated Financial We obtained bank confirmations for all bank accounts at in scope locations as at These adjustments, decreased cash Statements page 153 31 December 2018 and agreed the bank confirmation amount to the year end by 3.7m and increased receivables.
The Group has cash of Our journal entry testing procedures 83.3m 2017: 108.2m We obtained and inspected bank reconciliations for material reconciling items did not identify any instances of and net debt of 189.4m and confirmed that all items were recognised in the appropriate accounting inappropriate management override 2017: 258.7m.
in the recognition of cash across theGroup.
The timing of the We tested a sample of consolidation and sub consolidation adjustments to cash recognition of payments to address the risk of management override in cash recognition.
and receipts is relevant We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 11 to the reported cash and locations, which covered 84% of the risk amount.
We also performed central net debt position of the procedures over Cash, which covered 13% of the risk amount.
Group, and is directly linked to financial covenants.
Our Interim review for the 6-month period ended 30 June 2018 identified prior year adjustments relating to cash on the 31 December 2017 Balance Sheet.
There is opportunity through management override or error to misstate the allocation of cash between periods.
com Stock code: SHI 187 Independent Auditors Report To the members of SIG plc Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Impairment of Goodwill, We obtained and understood the method applied by management in performing We agreed with managements Intangible assets and its impairment test for each of the relevant Cash Generating Units CGUs and conclusion that no impairments Property, Plant and identified key controls.
were required, based on the results Equipment PPE of our work.
We performed detailed testing to assess critically and corroborate the key inputs Refer to Accounting policies tothe valuations, including: Goodwill relating to the Lariviere page 120 : and Note 12 of CGU in France is most sensitive to Evaluating the identification of CGUs against the requirements of IAS 36: the Consolidated Financial reasonably possible changes in key Analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual results for a 3-year Statements page 145 assumptions.
period to determine whether forecast cash flows are reliable based on past The Groups Balance We consider the disclosures made in experience: Sheet includes goodwill, note 12 to be appropriate.
Assessing the appropriateness of the method of the impairment model: intangible assets and PPE Testing the integrity of the model and underlying data to board approved totalling 445.5m at 31 budgets: December 2018 2017: 487.3m.
Benchmarking the discount rate calculation applied, using our internal valuation experts to assist in our testing of whether managements In line with the assumptions are within an acceptable range based on comparative market requirements of IAS 36: data: and Impairment of Assets, Validating that growth rates have been appropriately adjusted to reflect the Management test goodwill change in Group strategy.
balances annually for impairment, this For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which the key inputs and assumptions assessment includes both would need to fluctuate before an impairment was triggered and considered the intangible assets and PPE.
We performed our own sensitivities on the Groups forecasts and determined whether adequate headroom remained also taking The annual impairment into consideration the position reported in the parent company balance sheet.
test includes areas of estimation uncertainty We assessed the disclosures in the intangible assets note against the and judgement over the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, in particular the requirement to future performance of disclose further sensitivities for CGUs where a reasonably possible change in a the business for example key assumption would cause animpairment.
In the current year this includes a forecast future trading Brexit sensitivity.
results and cashflows, specific assumptions such We performed the above audit procedures over this risk area at a Group level as discount rates and longcovering 100% of the risk amount.
Changes to these assumptions or adverse performance could have a significant impact on the available headroom and any impairment that may be required.
Especially sensitive are the CGUs: UK Distribution, UK Exteriors and Lariviere.
There is an associated risk in the company only balance sheet over the potential impairment of investments in subsidiary undertakings.
188 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 FINANCIALS FINANCIALS An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 66 reporting components of the Group, we selected 14 components covering entities within each of the eight principal countries which the Group operates, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 14 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 8 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining 6 components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 94% of the Groups Underlying Profit before tax, 92% of the Groups Revenue and 95% of the Groups Total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 170% of the Groups Underlying Profit before tax offset by the specific scope locations, 84% of the Groups Revenue and 90% of the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope components contributed negative 76% of the Groups Underlying Profit before tax, 8% of the Groups Revenue and 5% of the Groups Total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
2018 % Group underlying Profit before % Group % Group Total Number tax Revenue assets Full scope 8 170% 84% 90% Specific scope 6 76% 8% 5% Full and specific scope coverage 14 94% 92% 95% Of the remaining 52 components that together represent 5% of the Groups Underlying Profit before tax, none are individually greater than 5% of the Groups Underlying Profit before tax.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review and or review scope components, testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 8 full scope components, audit procedures were performed on 7 of these directly by the component audit teams in the UK, France, Germany, Poland, Ireland and Belgium.
For the 6 specific scope components, where the work was performed by component auditors in the UK, Poland, Netherlands and Bulgaria, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
At the start of the audit, a Group wide Team Planning Event was held with representatives from all full and specific scope component teams in attendance.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the primary audit team to the component teams in the UK, France, Germany, Poland, Netherlands, Belgium and Bulgaria.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component team including any issues arising from their work, meeting with local management, attending planning and closing meetings and reviewing key audit working papers on risk areas.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
com Stock code: SHI 189 Independent Auditors Report To the members of SIG plc Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.6 million, which is 5% of Underlying Profit before Tax, excluding property profits.
We believe that Underlying Profit before Tax, excluding property profits provides us with an appropriate basis for materiality.
Underlying Profit before Tax is a key metric used by management and investors.
We have excluded property profits from the measure used as the basis for materiality as they do not relate to the core trading activities of the Group.
When using an earnings-related measure to determine overall materiality, the norm is to apply a benchmark percentage of 5% of the pre-tax measure, we use Underlying Profit before Tax and remove property profits to establish a measure of normalised earnings.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be 3.6 million, which is 2% of Equity, capped at the materiality of the Group.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and amended for final Underlying Profit before Tax, excluding property profits.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 50% of our planning materiality, namely 1.8m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to this being an initial audit and the outcome of our risk assessment.
Audit work at component locations, for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts, is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
The range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1.2m to 0.4m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.2m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, set out on pages 1 to 106, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 74 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on page 76 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 63 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
190 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 FINANCIALS FINANCIALS Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 106, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in each of the eight principle countries of operation.
We understood how SIG plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, Internal Audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the Company Secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes and papers provided to the Audit Committee.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand where it considered there was a susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their propensity to influence efforts made by management to manage earnings.
We considered the programmes and controls that the Group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those programmes and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud and error.
com Stock code: SHI 191 Independent Auditors Report To the members of SIG plc Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals, and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of Legal Counsel, Group management, Internal Audit, subsidiary Management at all full and specific scope components: and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
In addition, we completed procedures to conclude on the compliance of the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts with the requirements of the relevant accounting standards, UK legislation and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 4th July 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is one year, covering the year ending 31 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Colin Brown Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 7 March 2019 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the SIG plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
192 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2018 FINANCIALS
