Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OFSIRIUSMINERALSPLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Sirius Minerals Plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups loss and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and parent Company statements of financial position as at 31 December 2018: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash flows, and the consolidated and parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
We have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 other than those disclosed in the Directors report.
Material uncertainty relating to going concern Group and Parent In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not modified, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosure made in note 1 to the financial statements concerning the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
As described in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Directors have considered the funding available to the Group, and have assessed the likelihood that the proceeds of the equity issuance which is about to be launched and the stage 2 financing which is currently being negotiated will be available when required.
The Group is reliant on both the equity issuance and the stage 2 financing to be able to continue with the development of the Project.
The going concern assessment of the Company is linked to the going concern of the Group due to its loans to subsidiaries, as described in note F of the Companys financial statements.
Given the risks associated with the equity issuance and with concluding the stage 2 financing negotiations, the Directors have drawn attention to this in disclosing a material uncertainty relating to going concern in the basis of preparation within note 1 to the financial statements.
These conditions, along with the other matters explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, indicate the existence of a material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The financial statements do not include the adjustments that would result if the Group and Company were unable to continue as a going concern.
In concluding that there is a material uncertainty, our audit procedures included reviewing the available documents in connection with the equity issuance launch preparations and the stage 2 financing negotiations and obtaining the Directors approved papers in which they considered the going concern of the Group.
In reviewing these papers we considered the financial liquidity of the Group by comparing the financial information in the papers to the most recently approved cash flow projections and to the Directors latest expectations on the timing of the equity issuance proceeds and the timing and structure of the stage 2 financing.
88 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 5 million 2017: 4 million, based on 0.5% of total assets Materiality Overall Company materiality: 3.6 million 2017: 3.6 million, based on 0.5% of total assets We, as the Group engagement team, audited Sirius Minerals Plc, York Potash Limited and Sirius Audit Minerals Finance Limited.
Each is considered to be a financially significant component of the Group scoping due to the quantum of their asset base.
Taken together these three entities represent 97% of the Groups total assets and 91% of its Loss before Tax Areas of Going concern Group and Parent focus Valuation of complex financing arrangements Group and Parent Valuation of expected credit loss provision on loans to subsidiaries Parent The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, financial conduct & UK tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with tax authorities, review of correspondence with legal advisors and enquiries of management.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 89 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OFSIRIUSMINERALSPLC CONTINUED Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we donot provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In addition to going concern, described in the material uncertainty relating to going concern section above, we determined the matter described below to be the key audit matter to be communicated in our report.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of complex financing arrangements We obtained managements valuation model for each of the financing instruments listed.
To assess application we: The Groups Stage 1 financing activities during the 2016 financial year resulted in a number of complex financing arrangements read the underlying contract and assessed whether the being entered into with third parties, specifically: contractterms supported the accounting treatment adopted: US$250 million royalty agreement with Hancock British in relation to the US$50 million equity arrangement and the HoldingsLimited US$400 million of the denominated convertible bonds, we US$50 million equity arrangement with Hancock British assessed whether the valuation model adopted was consistent with the model applied during the period ended December 2017: HoldingsLimited US$400 million of Group issued Dollar denominated evaluated discount rate assumptions made by management: convertiblebonds.
confirmed convertible bond conversion rates to source Accounting for each of these financing instruments under IFRS is documentation: complex and, where valuation models are required, the eventual in relation to the US$250 million royalty agreement, we evaluated valuation is sensitive to key management estimates.
managements future royalty payment assumptions and recalculated the internal rate of return and amortised cost: The accounting framework for each of these financing instruments and the respective valuation models employed by management read the disclosures made in the financial statements.
remains consistent with those adopted in 2017.
The new valuation We found, based on the results of our testing, that the valuation, model for the royalty agreement is also consistent with the recognition and disclosures made in the financial statements in accounting framework adopted in 2017.
However, the valuations respect of these financial instruments were consistent with the recognised in the 2018 financial statements remain sensitive to supporting evidence we obtained.
current year inputs in the valuation models.
Given the material nature of these instruments and the judgemental nature of these inputs we consider this to be a key audit matter.
Group and Parent Valuation of Expected Credit Loss ECL provision on We obtained managements valuation model and calculation of the loans to subsidiaries ECL provision, which is arrived at by multiplying the probability of The Parent company holds receivable balances due from its each outcome that results in less than full recovery of the receivable subsidiaries, amounting to 811.7 million.
In accordance with IFRS balance by the amount of that under-recovery.
The ECL provision is 9, Financial instruments, and having regard to the current stage the sum of these weighted outcomes.
To assess the calculation and of development of the Project and its current funding position, in the light of our knowledge of the Project we: management has considered the level of ECL on these receivable assessed whether the outcomes identified by management were balances and recorded a provision in the Parent Company financial appropriate: statements of 44.7 million.
assessed the reasonableness of the probabilities assigned to The ECL calculation requires an estimation of the various possible each outcome: outcomes for the Project, including those where partial or no evaluated the expected recovery for those outcomes where less recovery is anticipated, and the probabilities of those outcomes.
than full recovery was anticipated: and This estimation is considered a key management estimate in the read the disclosures made in the Parent company financial context of the Parent company financial statements.
The ECL has no effect on the Group financial statements as the We also checked that the methods applied in the valuation model intercompany receivables are eliminated on consolidation.
were in accordance with IFRS 9 and tested the calculations within Parent the model.
We found, based on the results of our testing, that the valuation and disclosure of the ECL provision in the Parent company financial statements was consistent with our knowledge of the Project and the supporting evidence we obtained.
90 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group, headed by Sirius Minerals Plc, comprises fourteen wholly owned statutory entities, nine of which are registered and domiciled in England & Wales.
The remaining entities are registered and domiciled in each of Jersey, Canada, Singapore, India and the USA.
The Groups activities are fully centred on its UK operations, in particular the development of the Woodsmith Mine, an asset held by York Potash Limited.
The Group is financed via equity and external debt instruments held principally by Sirius Minerals Plc and Sirius Minerals Finance Limited.
Each of these three entities is considered to be a financially significant component due to the quantum of their asset base.
Taken together these three entities represent 97% of the Groups total assets and 91% of its Loss before Tax.
The Group audit team has performed statutory audits on each of the financially significant components with the work on these entities concluded as part of the Group audit.
In addition the Group audit team has performed statutory audit on York Potash Processing & Ports Limited, York Potash Holdings Limited, SACH 1 Limited, SACH 2 Limited and Sirius Minerals Holdings Limited.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 5 million 2017: 4 million.
How we determined it 0.5% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Group is in a pre-trading phase and The Company holds investments in wholly isfocused on developing the Woodsmith owned subsidiary entities focused on Mine asset.
Accordingly total assets is the developing the Woodsmith Mine asset.
primary measure used by shareholders in Accordingly total assets is the primary assessing the performance of the Group, measure used by shareholders in assessing and is a generally accepted auditing the performance of the Company, and is a benchmark.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.0 million and 3.6 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.25 million for the Group audit 2017: 0.1 million and 0.1 million for the Company audit 2017: 0.1 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to other draw attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the thanthe material uncertainty we have described in the material financial statements about whether the Directors considered uncertainty relating to going concern section above.
However, itappropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this inpreparing the financial statements and the Directors statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and ability to continue as a going concern.
theCompanys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
toGoing Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 91 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OFSIRIUSMINERALSPLC CONTINUED Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 36 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 41 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 85, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 54 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 92 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 85, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as agoing concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless theDirectors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the members on 10 October 2012 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 7 years, covering the years ended 31 March 2013 to 31 December 2018.
Randal Casson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Leeds 30 April 2019 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 93
