Financial statements Independent Auditors report Independent auditors report Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 65 million which was determined on the basis of to the members of Sky plc profit before tax after removing for certain one-off Report on the audit of the financial statements items normalised profit before tax.
Opinion Scoping Our audit scope is consistent with the prior year and In our opinion: includes the Groups UK & Ireland, Germany & Austria, the financial statements of Sky plc give a true and fair view of the state and Italy operations.
The Spain and Switzerland of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2018 businesses are included within the UK & Ireland and and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Germany & Austria operations respectively.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Significant changes We have added financing of mobile handset accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as in our approach receivables and valuation of goodwill for the adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Germany & Austria cash generating unit as key audit Accounting Standards Board IASB : matters this year.
There were no other significant changes in our approach for the year ended 30 June the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared 2018 compared with the prior year.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and and viability statement the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Going concern requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification We have audited the financial statements of Sky plc the Parent Company of any material uncertainties to the Groups and companys ability to and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date the consolidated income statement: of approval of the financial statements.
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets: and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity: obtained in the audit.
the consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements: and We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Principal risks and viability statement The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the and as issued by the IASB, and, as regards the Parent Company financial audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going Act 2006. concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on the disclosures on pages 24 to 27 that describe the principal risks and Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under explain how they are being managed or mitigated: those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities the Directors confirmation on page 24 that they have carried out a for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance those that would threaten its business model, future performance, with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial solvency or liquidity: or statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRC the Directors explanation on page 27 as to how they have assessed the Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Parent Company.
period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to Summary of our audit approach the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Revenue recognition for bundled items in retail subscription revenue: recognition of entertainment programming expense in the UK & Ireland: valuation of goodwill for the Germany & Austria cash generating unit: financing of mobile handset receivables in the UK: and capital project accounting in the UK & Ireland.
Annual Report 2018 71 Independent Auditors report continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The financing of mobile handset receivables, as described on page 90, is a new and complex area of accounting for the Group.
The valuation of goodwill for Germany & Austria requires significant judgement on the part of management on key assumptions, which are described in note 10.
As a result, we allocated additional effort and resources to these areas and have included them as key audit matters this year.
Key Audit Matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Revenue recognition for bundled items in retail subscription revenue The Group sells subscription packages to customers which include In order to address the completeness of revenue adjustments that are made multiple elements and may include discounts and offers, for by management to align the timing of revenue recognition to the Groups example TV subscription, hardware and telephony services sold accounting policies, our audit procedures included: for a single package price.
The Group earned direct-to-consumer evaluating the Groups revenue recognition policy and managements revenue of 11,830 million in 2018 2017: 11,312 million, which current year accounting assessment for bundled transactions: and includes subscription revenue.
assessing the different product bundles and offers in the year to pinpoint The allocation of retail subscription revenue to each element of a the risk of incorrect timing of revenue recognition.
bundled transaction is complex and requires judgement over the timing and relative value attributed to each element, as described in In order to address the accuracy and completeness of revenue recognition the Audit Committee Report on page 41 and in the Groups critical and any timing adjustments, our audit procedures included: accounting policies on page 88. confirming the implementation of the Groups policy in each territory There is a risk that inappropriate allocations of value could lead to by performing walkthroughs and tests of controls to confirm our non-compliance with accounting standards and incorrect timing understanding of the process by which revenue is calculated by the of revenue recognition under the Groups accounting policies.
relevant billing systems: We have pinpointed a risk of fraud in revenue to manual assessing whether the timing of revenue recognition should be adjusted adjustments made to the system-based revenue profile for bundled based on the relative fair value of elements delivered at different points items in retail subscription revenue.
during the contract, when compared to the revenue calculated by the relevant billing system: for bundles assessed as being at higher risk of requiring revenue recognition timing adjustments, inspecting the accounting treatment of the bundle with greater scrutiny by vouching the fair value of different elements to appropriate evidence: and where revenue recognition timing adjustments were identified as being required, validating the valuation and accuracy of these adjustments to align revenue recognition to the Groups accounting policy.
In response to the potential for fraud in the manual adjustments made to the system-based billing profile, our audit procedures included: calculating an independent expectation of retail subscription revenue: understanding the nature of adjustments and resulting journals that are made to the system-based profile: and vouching to appropriate evidence the rationale for a sample of these journals, validating their valuation and accuracy.
Key observations Based on our work, we are satisfied that revenue recognition for bundled items in retail subscription revenue, including consideration of manual adjustments, has been recognised appropriately and is in accordance with the Groups revenue recognition policy.
72 Sky plc Financial statements Key Audit Matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Recognition of general entertainment programming expense in the UK & Ireland Determining the timing and amount of the general entertainment The UK & Ireland business spends the greatest amount of the three major programming expense recognised in the period requires judgement territories on general entertainment programming, and is the most developed in selecting the appropriate recognition profiles.
The profiles should market in respect of changing viewing trends and broadcast methods.
achieve the objective of recognising the programming inventory As a result, we allocate additional effort and resource in this area on the expense in line with the way that the benefit of the inventory is UK & Ireland component of the Group.
consumed by the Group, as set out in the Audit Committee Report In order to address the accuracy and completeness of general entertainment on page 41 and in the Groups critical accounting policies on page 89. programming expense, our audit procedures included: General entertainment programming expense involves more critically assessing managements review of amortisation profiles by judgement than other types of programming due to the number searching for contradictory and corroborative evidence, including through of quantitative and qualitative factors involved in the selection the use of computer-assisted analytical tools to measure changes in and application of an appropriate expense profile, for example: viewing and scheduling trends against cost recognition: time period and frequency with which the programme is expected comparing the expense profiles determined by management with those to be utilised on the Groups linear and non-linear on demand that would be indicated by viewing trends used as a proxy for value from services: broadcast in addition to other qualitative factors such as brand and or expectations of the number of viewers a programme is likely channel value: to achieve for each broadcast on the Groups linear channels: assessing the appropriateness of the fair value apportioned to linear and potential benefits associated with utilising programming: non-linear on demand viewing rights in content contracts, including through analysis of viewing data: and the relative values associated with linear and on demand rights: and benchmarking managements general entertainment amortisation policy against industry practice in the UK.
evolving viewing habits and broadcast methods over time.
There is a risk that the recognition profiles selected by management for entertainment programming, and therefore the expense recognised, do not reflect the way that the Group consumes the benefit of the inventory.
Key observations Based on our work, we are satisfied that the accounting for entertainment programming expense in the UK & Ireland is appropriate and in line with the Groups accounting policies.
Key Audit Matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Valuation of goodwill for the Germany & Austria cash generating unit The Group has goodwill of 4,972 million 2017: 4,930 million across We pinpointed our work to the German element of the business as this is its three cash generating units CGUs, of which 3,213 million 2017: the most significant part of the Germany & Austria CGU and involved the 3,192 million relates to Germany & Austria.
Determining the recoverable amount of each CGU, which is Our audit procedures performed included: calculated on the basis of value in use as described in note 10, evaluating managements identification of CGUs to ensure that Germany & requires judgement by management over the expected future Austria is the appropriate level on which to assess the valuation of goodwill: performance and cash flows of the relevant CGU.
involving our valuation specialists to evaluate the appropriateness of the In particular, for Germany & Austria, significant judgement is discount rate, medium and long term growth rates and valuation required by management on variables such as the size and methodology applied in managements model opportunity of the subscription business in the territory, medium and long term growth rates, assumptions on the levels of evaluating revenue growth and cost assumptions against historical trends programming spend, the Groups ability to reduce operational and detailed business plans, and third-party estimates of future costs over time, and the most appropriate discount rate.
performance: inspecting independently obtained research to search for contradictory and corroborative evidence of the market opportunity in the German market performing independent sensitivities including increases in levels of programming spend and delays to growth in cash flows: evaluating managements forecasting ability against actual results: considering the value of the business in light of the offers for the Company: and reviewing the adequacy of the related disclosures in note 10 to the financial statements.
Key observations Based on our work, we are satisfied with managements conclusion that the goodwill allocated to the Germany & Austria cash generated unit does not need to be impaired.
We are satisfied with the enhanced disclosures management has made in note 10.
Annual Report 2018 73 Independent Auditors report continued Key Audit Matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Financing of mobile handset receivables in the UK The financing of handset receivables is a new activity for the In order to address the control of the Entity, our audit procedures included: business in the UK.
As described in note 20, the Group sold 142 evaluating managements assessment of control of the Entity, through million of handset receivables into a securitisation entity the enquiring with the third parties in the arrangement and inspecting evidence Entity, with associated financing costs of 11 million.
In addition, of interaction with the Group: it received less than 1 million in interest on its junior debt and received less than 1 million in fees for its role as servicing agent inspecting third-party evidence, both corroborative and contradictory, for the Entitys receivables.
At the year end, the Groups investment including correspondence between the Group and third parties involved in the junior debt issued by the Entity was 19 million.
in the arrangement: and The Group has concluded that it does not control the Entity and evaluating the completeness and compliance of disclosures in the financial therefore that it should not be consolidated and that the handset statements against the relevant reporting standards.
receivables can be fide-recognised from the balance sheet.
In order to address the fide-recognition of the handset receivables, our audit The assessment of both control of the Entity and the assessment procedures included: of fide-recognition of the receivables is complex and requires critically assessing and challenging managements assessment for the judgement, as described in the Groups critical accounting policies fide-recognition of the receivables against the requirements and criteria on page 90: of IAS 39: and the arrangement may operate in such a way that the involving financial instrument specialists to validate the appropriateness of securitisation Entity is controlled by the Group and should the methodology and assumptions used in the fide-recognition assessment.
therefore be consolidated: and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership may not have been transferred from the Group to the Entity and receivables may therefore have been inappropriately fide-recognised from the Groups balance sheet.
Key observations Based on our work, we are satisfied that the Entity should not be consolidated in Groups financial statements and that the handset receivables have been appropriately fide-recognised.
Key Audit Matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Capital project accounting in the UK & Ireland During the year, the Group had additions to intangible assets of The UK & Ireland incurs the most complex and greatest amount of capital 570 million 2017: 553 million and to property, plant and expenditure across the Group.
In addition, it incurs expenditure on behalf equipment of 703 million 2017: 666 million, as shown in notes 11 of all territories: for example the development of the Sky Q box.
As a result, and 12. we allocated additional effort for our procedures on this territory.
The assessment and timing of whether assets meet the In order to address the classification and valuation of capitalised assets, capitalisation criteria set out in IAS 38 Intangible Assets and IAS 16 our audit procedures included: Property, Plant and Equipment requires judgement, as set out in the testing the design and operating effectiveness of managements controls Audit Committee Report on page 41 and in the Groups critical in respect of the capitalisation of assets and the identification of potential accounting policies on page 89.
In addition, determining whether indicators of impairment: there is any indication of impairment of the carrying value of assets being developed or replaced also requires judgement in assessing for a sample of capital expenditure projects: performance against the investment business case.
critically assessing managements considerations of whether the project As a result, there is a risk that expenditure is inappropriately meets IAS 16 or IAS 38 capitalisation criteria: capitalised based on relevant accounting guidance, and that meeting with project managers outside of the finance function to obsolete assets or assets not yet in use are not recoverable understand the project scope and status, evaluate the project against at their carrying value.
capitalisation criteria, and to search for indicators of impairment: developing a detailed understanding of the project business case and tracing to expenditure authorisations: and vouching a sample of project costs to appropriate evidence.
Key observations Based on our work, we are satisfied that the accounting for capital projects is appropriate and in line with the Groups accounting policies.
74 Sky plc Financial statements Materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality 65 million 2017: 65 million 62 million 2017: 60 million Basis for determining This represents 8% of normalised profit before tax 2017: 8%.
The Parent Companys materiality is determined as 3% materiality 2017: 3% of its net asset position at the year end, capped at the highest component materiality of 62 million.
Rationale for the As Sky plc is a public interest entity with listed equity we The Parent Company is not a trading entity, and primarily benchmark applied determined normalised profit before tax to be the most contains investments in Group companies and borrowings.
This is defined as statutory profit As a result, the benchmark considered most relevant to before tax of 864 million after removing for the effects of the users of the Parent Companys financial statements one-off items in the year such as: the distribution received is net assets.
from associate, profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment, regulatory-related receipts and proceeds of settlements, and costs incurred in respect of the offers for Sky.
Further detail of the amounts in respect of these is included in note 8.
Group materiality Other information 65 million The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report Component other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
materiality range 62 million Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other to 39 million Normalised PBT 781 million information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility Audit Committee Normalised PBT reporting threshold is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other Group materiality 3.25 million information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Audit misstated.
Committee all audit differences in excess of 3.25 million 2017: 3.25 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other An overview of the scope of our audit information, we are required to report that fact.
Our audit scope is consistent with the prior year and includes the Groups In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you UK & Ireland, Germany & Austria, and Italy operations all of which were as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 30 June 2018.
The Spain and where we conclude that: Switzerland businesses are included within the UK and German operations respectively.
As a result all of the Groups assets, revenue and adjusted Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the profit before tax are subject to an audit either scoped by our component Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements audit teams to their respective component materiality or by the Group taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the audit team.
The Group audit team directed, supervised and reviewed the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position work of the component auditors for Germany & Austria and for Italy, which and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent involved issuing detailed instructions, holding regular discussions with with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or component audit teams, making multiple visits to each location throughout Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit the year, performing detailed file reviews and attending local audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by meetings with management.
us to the Audit Committee: or Audit work performed for the Groups UK & Ireland operations was Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance performed by the Group and UK audit team.
The Group audit partner Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing visited all components, attending key meetings with both component Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate auditors and local management.
The Group audit team performed work Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the on the consolidation.
auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly Audit work in UK & Ireland, Germany & Austria and Italy was performed at disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate levels of materiality which were lower than Group materiality and ranged Governance Code.
from 39m to 62m, depending on the components contribution to the We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Annual Report 2018 75 Independent Auditors report continued Responsibilities of Directors Matters on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities, the Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such in our opinion: internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the we have not received all the information and explanations we require preparation of financial statements that are free from material for our audit: or misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a not visited by us: or going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease accounting records and returns.
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Directors remuneration Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the Other matters aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic Auditor tenure decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial by the Directors on 26 July 2002 to audit the financial statements for the statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: year ending 30 June 2002 and subsequent financial periods.
This description forms part of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and of our auditors report.
reappointments of the firm is 17 years, covering the years ending 30 June 2002 to 30 June 2018.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Committee In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Use of our report the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit is consistent with the financial statements: and work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors accordance with applicable legal requirements report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, or for the opinions we have formed.
we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Paul Franek FCA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 25 July 2018 76 Sky plc
