115 Company Overview Strategic report Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE MEMBERS OF SMITHS GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION In our opinion: Smiths Group plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 July 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated balance sheet and Company balance sheet as at 31 July 2018: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated cash-flow statement for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the accounting policies, and the notes to the financial statements.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 August 2017 to 31 July 2018.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview MATERIALITY Overall Group materiality: 20 million FY2017: 20 million, based on approximately 3.5% of headline operating profit.
Overall Company materiality: 18 million FY2017: 18 million, based on 0.5% of total assets.
AUDIT SCOPE We conducted full scope audits at 19 reporting units across 8 countries.
In addition, we performed the audit of specific balances and transactions at 16 reporting units across North America and Canada.
During the year, the Group engagement team visited multiple reporting sites in North America and Europe and attended the year end clearance meetings for each division.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Revenue recognition occurrence, together with accounting for complex programmes and contract accounting in the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect Divisions Group.
Product litigation provisions for asbestos in John Crane, Inc. and flexible gas piping product in Titeflex Corporation, a subsidiary of the Flex-Tek Division Group.
Working capital and associated provisions Group.
Taxation provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets Group.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments Group.
Defined benefit pension plan net assets and liabilities Group and Company.
116 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SMITHS GROUP PLC CONTINUED THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industries in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, indirect and direct tax laws, product safety regulations and financial reporting regulations.
Our tests included, but were not limited to understanding managements approach to ensuring compliance with laws and regulations: enquiries with local, divisional and Group management: meeting with Group legal counsel to discuss legal matters: meeting with internal audit: obtaining legal confirmations where relevant: and focussing testing of balances and transactions, in addition to those listed as key audit matters below, that are subject to estimation, such as litigation provisions.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition occurrence, together with accounting for complex programmes and contract accounting in the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect Divisions Group We focused on revenue recognition for all divisions in the Group to For all the divisions we assessed whether the Groups revenue check that revenue has been appropriately recognised upon fulfilment recognition policies complied with IFRSs as adopted by the EU of contractual obligations.
and tested the implementation of those policies.
Specifically we considered whether revenue was recognised based on the transfer In the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect divisions we focused of the risks and rewards of ownership of goods to the customer or on the accounting for complex programmes and contract accounting.
the accounting period in which services were rendered by testing a The recognition of revenue is largely dependent on the terms of sample of revenue items to contract and shipping documents, with a the underlying contract with the customer, including the nature of specific focus on major programmes where revenue was recorded separate deliverables within the contract, achieving milestones within close to the year-end.
those contracts and the mechanisms in the contract by which risks and rewards of goods and services are transferred to the customer.
Where appropriate we evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the operating effectiveness of the internal controls over the recording These contracts are usually long term in nature, sometimes spanning of revenue in the correct period.
This means that the final profitability of a contract, which will be based upon forecast revenues and costs We also tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts to identify to complete, can be uncertain during the earlier phases.
Judgement any unusual or irregular items, and the reconciliations between the must therefore be applied in order to estimate the profit margins to systems used by the Group.
recognise the revenue that is recorded.
In the case of the Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect divisions, Changes in conditions and circumstances over time can result in for a sample of contracts, we read the relevant customer agreements variations to the original contract terms or to the overall profitability and tested the accounting for separate deliverables and contractual of the contract.
This can include cost overruns which require further milestones.
This testing included evaluating customer acceptance negotiation and settlements resulting in the need for provisions.
of the work done to establish whether contractual milestones had been achieved, assessing the impact of any ongoing disputes, and Refer also to Accounting Policies.
assessing the reasonableness of the managements estimates of costs to complete the contract by comparing them to actual historical costs incurred on comparable contracts.
We did not identify any material exceptions from the audit work performed and we found estimates to be in line with our expectations.
117 Company Overview Strategic report Governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Product litigation provisions for asbestos in John Crane, Inc. and flexible gas piping product in Titeflex Corporation, a subsidiary of the Flex-Tek Division Group John Crane, Inc. a US based subsidiary of the Group, is currently In John Crane, Inc. we used our own internal experts to challenge one of many co-defendants in litigation relating to products previously managements assumptions underlying the adverse judgment and manufactured which contained asbestos.
This included an examination of the model maintained by managements valuation expert and evaluation of A provision of 223 million has been made for the future defence costs the work of the expert, by considering the appropriateness of the which the Group is expected to incur and the expected costs of future methodology used, the reasonableness of assumptions including the adverse judgments against John Crane, Inc. use of a rolling 10 year horizon and considering alternative outcomes, Titeflex Corporation, another US based subsidiary of the Group, has particularly the sensitivity calculations performed.
In addition we received a number of claims from insurance companies seeking tested the mathematical accuracy of the underlying calculations and recompense on a subrogated basis for the effects of damage allegedly agreed input data to source documents.
caused by lightning strikes in relation to its flexible gas piping product.
We challenged managements underlying assumptions supporting its It has also received a number of product liability claims regarding this Titeflex provision.
This included an evaluation of the valuation model, product, some in the form of purported class actions.
A provision of by testing the mathematical accuracy of the underlying calculations 78 million has been made for the costs which the Group is expected and the input data such as the average amount of settlements, the to incur in respect of these claims.
number of future settlements and the period over which expenditure We focused on these areas because there is significant judgement can be reasonably estimated by testing them to historic claims.
involved in the assumptions used to estimate the provisions, in We also discussed these matters with the Companys internal legal particular those relating to the US litigation environment such as the counsel, obtained letters from external counsel and evaluated the future level of claims and the cost of defence.
As a result the provision appropriateness of the disclosures made in the Group financial may be subject to potentially material revisions from time to time.
We found the assumptions to be consistent and in line with historical claims.
We read the disclosures and found them to be consistent with the information we have obtained during the course of our audit.
Working capital and associated provisions Group We focused on this area because inventory provisions include Where appropriate, we evaluated the managements forecasted sales subjective estimates and are influenced by assumptions concerning for each significant category of slow moving inventory by comparing future selling prices and the level of sales activity, and the Group them to historical sales and orders for future sales.
also has material levels of trade receivables that are overdue and not We compared the historical provision for bad debts to the actual impaired as disclosed in note 14 to the financial statements.
amounts written off, to determine whether the managements We focused in particular on inventory levels in those parts of the estimation techniques were reasonable and considered the adequacy business experiencing challenging trading environments.
We also of provisions for bad debts for significant customers at reporting unit focused on divisions with inherent judgements associated with large level, taking into account specific credit risk assessments.
programmes and complex contractual terms.
We did not identify any material exceptions from our audit work.
The key associated risks were recoverability of billed and unbilled trade receivables and the valuation of inventory.
Taxation provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets Group The Group has recognised 180 million deferred tax assets on We evaluated the managements assessment as to whether there the balance sheet, the recognition of which involves judgement by will be sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support the management as to the likelihood of the realisation of these deferred recognition of deferred tax assets by evaluating the managements tax assets.
The expectation that the benefit of these assets will be future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they were drawn realised is dependent on a number of factors, including appropriate up, including testing the underlying calculations and comparing the taxable temporary timing differences, and whether there will be forecasts to historical performance.
sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support recognition.
We also used our tax specialists to assess managements The Group has recognised provisions against uncertain tax positions, assumptions underlying the provisions for uncertain tax positions.
the valuation of which is an inherently judgemental area.
The Group We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to tax laws in a number and read communications from taxation authorities to identify of jurisdictions.
118 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SMITHS GROUP PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill and intangible asset impairment assessments Group The Group holds significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets We evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts, and the on the balance sheet, as detailed in note 10 to the financial statements.
process by which they were drawn up, including testing the underlying The risk is that these balances are overstated.
calculations and comparing them to the latest Board approved divisional budgets.
Goodwill 1,616 million must be tested for impairment on at least an annual basis.
The determination of recoverable amount, being We challenged: the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs to sell, requires the Directors key assumptions for long-term growth rates in the judgement in both identifying and then valuing the relevant cash forecasts by comparing them to historical results, and economic generating units CGUs.
and industry forecasts: and The impairment assessment for these assets involves subjective the discount rate by assessing the cost of capital for the Group.
judgements about future business performance, with key assumptions We evaluated the reasonableness of the Directors forecast including cash flows, the overall long-term growth rates, discount performance by performing a sensitivity analysis around the key rates used and to the extent relevant, the fair value less costs to drivers of the cash flow forecasts.
We found the assumptions to be dispose.
consistent and in line with our expectations.
The Group also holds capitalised development costs 155 million, We evaluated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in where the risk of inappropriate capitalisation or impairment note 11 of the financial statements, including sensitivities provided may arise.
The key judgements relate to the technical feasibility with respect to the Interconnect Subsystems Detection CGU.
and regulatory and commercial viability of the products under To address the risks around capitalised development costs we development: and the related assumptions used within the related assessed the business cases supporting commercial viability, impairment assessments.
discussed technical feasibility with the product development team Refer also to notes 10 and 11. where applicable, tested key assumptions within the impairment assessments, and performed sensitivity analysis.
Defined benefit pension plan net assets and liabilities Group and Company The Group has defined benefit pension plans with net post-retirement We evaluated the Directors assessment of the assumptions made in assets of 526 million and net post-retirement liabilities of relation to the valuations of the liabilities and assets in the pension 145 million, which are significant in the context of the overall plans and the assumptions around salary increases and mortality balance sheet of the Group and Company.
rates by comparing them to national and industry averages.
We also focussed on the valuation of pension plan liabilities and the pension The valuation of the pension liabilities requires some judgement and assets as follows: technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
A number of the key assumptions including salary increases, inflation, discount We agreed the discount and inflation rates used in the valuation of rates and mortality can have a material impact on the calculation of the pension liability to our internally developed benchmarks.
We obtained third party confirmations on ownership and valuation of pension assets.
The pension assets include significant pension asset investments and We checked that the recognition of post retirement plan net assets the fair value measurement of which includes judgement.
complies with the Groups investment principles.
The recognition of post-retirement plan net assets for accounting Where there was no new census data in the year we assessed the purposes is dependent on the rights of the employers to recover the assumptions used by the actuaries.
surplus at the end of the life of the scheme.
We tested the basis of recognition of the UK pension surplus Refer also to note 8. through the reading of scheme rules.
119 Company Overview Strategic report Governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is organised into five divisions: John Crane, Smiths Medical, Smiths Detection, Smiths Interconnect and Flex-Tek and is a consolidation of over 250 units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group Engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
The Groups operating reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 19 reporting units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 16 reporting units, to give appropriate coverage of material balances at both divisional and Group levels.
Of these, one reporting unit has been determined to be financially significant based on its contribution to Group revenue and headline operating profit.
We conducted work in 11 countries and the Group engagement team visited reporting sites in North America and Europe, and participated in each of the divisional audit clearance meetings.
Together, the reporting units subject to audit procedures accounted for 74% FY2017: 75% of the Groups revenues and 79% FY2017: 78% of the Groups headline operating profit.
Further specific audit procedures over IT controls, central functions such as treasury and areas of judgement, including the accounting for acquisitions and disposals, taxation, goodwill, post-retirement benefits and material litigation, were performed at the local headquarters of each of the divisions and at the Groups Head Office.
MATERIALITY The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 20 million FY2017: 20 million.
How we determined it Based on approximately 3.5% of headline operating profit.
Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark Rationale for because, in our view, this is the metric against which the because, in our view, the Company is a holding benchmark applied performance of the Group is most commonly measured.
company and the parent company of the Group, which is not a profit oriented entity.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1 million and 10 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million Group audit FY2017: 1 million and 1 million Company audit FY2017: 1 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
GOING CONCERN In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing material to add or to draw attention in respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether to.
However, because not all future events or the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting conditions can be predicted, this statement is not in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going to continue as a going concern.
concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
120 SMITHS GROUP PLC Annual Report 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SMITHS GROUP PLC CONTINUED REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 July 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 88 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 68 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 84, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 8389 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 121 Company Overview Strategic report Governance FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities set out on page 114, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 19 November 1996 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 July 1997 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 22 years, covering the years ended 31 July 1997 to 31 July 2018.
Andrew Kemp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 20 September 2018
