117 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Accounts O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors UK report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THEMEMBERS 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks OFSMITH& NEPHEW PLC ofmaterial misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, 1.
O ur opinion is unmodifed were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and We have audited the financial statements of Smith & Nephew plc the include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which the Group Income Statement, Group Statement of Comprehensive had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of Income, Group Balance Sheet, Group Cash Flow Statement, Group resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Statement of Changes in Equity, Company Balance Sheet, Company We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2017, in Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes which includes decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion the accounting policies.
above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities our results from those In our opinion: procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Additional opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the accounting policies set out in the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 9 April 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 4 financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
118 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Accounts O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors UK report continued Riskvs 2017: RECOGNITION AND MEASUREMENT OF PROVISIONS FOR UNCERTAIN DIRECT TAX The risk Our response Our procedures included: UNCERTAIN OUTCOME Control operation: Testing the design and operating effectiveness of controls Provisions for tax uncertainties require the directors to make judgements and that the Group has in place to identify and quantify its uncertain direct estimates in relation to tax issues and exposures given that the Group operates tax exposures.
in a number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities of transfer pricing and other international tax legislation and the time taken for tax matters to be agreed with Our taxation expertise: With the assistance of our international and local tax authorities.
tax specialists, assessing the Groups direct tax positions and analysing and challenging the assumptions used to determine tax provisions and A provision of $178 million 2017: $201 million has been recognised for uncertain contingencies based on our knowledge and experience of the application of tax positions, including $nil in respect of a potential exposure under EU State international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
Test of detail: Examining the calculations prepared by the Directors and The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we agreeing key inputs used to underlying data.
determined that the provision has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with Inspecting correspondence with relevant tax authorities and assessing third a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the party tax advice received to evaluate the conclusions drawn from the advice financial statements as a whole.
The financial statements note 5.1 disclose the where relevant to the significant exposures faced by the Group.
range estimated by the Group.
Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the uncertain direct tax provisioning.
Our results: We found the level of provisioning in respect of uncertain direct tax positions and related contingent liabilities to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Refer to page 77 Audit Committee Report, page 139 accounting policy and pages 140141 financial disclosures.
Riskvs 2017: LIABILITY PROVISIONING FOR METAL-ON-METAL HIP PRODUCTS The risk Our response Our procedures included: SUBJECTIVE ESTIMATE Control operation: Testing the design and operating effectiveness As disclosed in note 17 the Group holds a provision of $192 million 2017: ofcontrolsthat Group has in place to identify and quantify its provision $157 million in respect of potential liabilities arising from the ongoing exposure formetal-on-metal hip products.
Enquiry of lawyers: Inspection of correspondence with external counsel The estimate for this provision requires the Directors to use a statistical model andwritten enquiries of external counsel on the status of open cases.
and make a number of key assumptions which include the expected number Test of detail: Examining the calculations prepared by the Directors and of claimants, projected value of each settlement and the likely time period agreeing key inputs used to underlying data.
For the cases identified from written enquiries of external counsel assessing whether these have been adequately considered by the Directors in making The financial statements note 17.1 disclose the range estimated by the Group.
Our actuarial expertise: With the assistance of our actuarial specialists, challenging the critical assumptions used in statistical projections in determining the estimated liability by reference to historical data including settlement amounts.
Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the metal-on-metal hip provision.
Our results: We found the level of provisioning in respect of metal-on-metal hip products to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Refer to page 77 Audit Committee Report, page 162 accounting policy and page 162163 financial disclosures.
119 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Accounts O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Riskvs 2017 REVENUE RELATED REBATES The risk Our response Our procedures included: RISK OF ERROR Control operation: Evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of The Group has a variety of agreements with wholesalers and distributors controls that the Group has in place over the identification, estimation and whereby contractual rebates are due to customers.
As disclosed in note 2.1 settlement of rebates.
rebates deducted against revenue in the year amounted to $335 million.
Inspection of customer contracts: Inspecting underlying contractual terms The contractual arrangement for rebates can vary by customer, product type and correspondence with customers for a selection of arrangements in place and jurisdiction.
and considering whether the terms of the rebate, discount and or returns have been applied correctly in calculating the rebate.
The amount of revenue recognised for products sold through these channels Test of detail: Performing detailed testing on a sample basis of the wholesale customers and distributors require the Directors to calculate these largest rebates with particular attention to whether the adjustments were contractual rebates which are deducted in arriving at revenue recorded in recognised in the correct period and the completeness of any rebates the period.
accrued at the year-end by comparison with contractual commitments agreed Due to the variations in complexity of these arrangements, we consider that with customers.
there is a risk or error in calculating the rebate or amounts that have yet to be Our results: agreed with the customer.
The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the rebates estimated to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Refer to page 133 accounting policy and page 133134 financial disclosures.
Riskvs 2017: EXCESS AND OBSOLESCENCE E&O PROVISION FOR ORTHOPAEDICS INVENTORY The risk Our response Our procedures included: FORECAST-BASED VALUATION Control operation: Evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of In line with industry practice, the Group has high levels of orthopaedics controls the Group has in place over the preparation, review and approval inventory located at customer premises to be available for immediate use by ofE&O provision.
Complete product sets include outsizes which are used infrequently.
Methodology implementation: Considering whether the Group accounting Towards the end of a products life cycle, finished goods inventory levels may policy was in line with accounting standards and comparing the calculation of exceed requirements, in particular as it relates to inventory used less frequently.
E&O provision tothe principles outlined in the Group accounting policy.
Historical sales of inventory are indicative of future usage, adjusted for changes Test of detail: Assessing key underlying assumptions in the E&O provision in market demand, technological advancements or other factors.
These include expected usage of inventory based on historical sales and other internal or external factors such as new product launches In calculating the provision for excess and obsolete inventory E&O provision and delays in regulatory approvals which may impact the demand for the disclosed in note 12 of $305 million 2017: $296 million the Directors have to product.
Corroborating key assumptions historical revenue and future revenue estimate the utilisation of inventory on hand based on forecast production projections against prior year actuals andchallenging budgets forecasts with and sales.
Inquiry of management: Performing inquiry of finance personnel to corroborate the Directors plans for launching new or discontinuing product lines.
Historical comparisons: Comparing provisions held in prior years to actual inventory write-offs to assess the accuracy by which the Directors were able to forecast this E&O provision.
Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of E&O provision.
Our results: The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the E&O provisions made to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Refer to page 77 Audit Committee Report, page 151 accounting policy and page 152 financial disclosures.
120 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Accounts O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors UK report continued PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: RECOVERABILITY OF PARENT COMPANYS Riskvs 2017: INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES The risk Our response Our procedures included: LOW RISK, HIGH VALUE Test of details: Comparing a sample of the highest value investments The carrying amount of the Parent Companys investments in subsidiaries held representing 98% 2017: 98% of the total investment balance with the at cost less impairment represents 78% 2017: 86% of the Parent Companys relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheets to identify whether their net total assets.
assets, being an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, We do not consider the valuation of these investments to be at a high risk of were in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether those significant misstatement, or to be subject to a significant level of judgement.
subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the Parent Company financial Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed by the statements as a whole, this is considered to be the area which had the greatest subsidiary audit team on that sample of subsidiaries and considering the effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and results of their work, on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
completing our parent company audit.
Comparing valuations: For the investments where the carrying amount exceeded the net asset value, comparing the carrying amount of the investment with the expected value of the business based on a suitable multiple of subsidiaries profits.
Our results: We found the Companys assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Our application of materiality and an overview ofthescope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set GROUP ADJUSTED GROUP MATERIALITY at $46 million 2017: $42 million, determined with reference to PROFIT BEFORE TAX a benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude $46m restructuring costs of $120 million 2017: $nil, legal and other charges 2017 of $38 million 2017: net credit of $13 million, a credit of $7 million $42m 2017:$10 million related to acquisition items and an impairment charge $38m of $nil 2017: 10 million as disclosed in note 2.2 of which it represents 4.9% 2017: 4.8%.
Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole $932m was set at $36 million 2017: $31 million, determined with reference 2017 to a benchmark of company total assets, of which it represents 0.4% $866m 2017: 0.4%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or $2.3m uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding $2.3 million 2017:$2.0 million, in addition to other identified misstatements thatwarranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Group normalised profit before tax Of the Groups 109 2017: 110 reporting components, we subjected 9 Group materiality 2017: 24 to full scope audits for Group purposes and 27 2017: 13 to Whole financial statements materiality $46m 2017: $42m audits of specific account balances including revenue, receivables, Range of materiality at 19 components $5m$38m : 2017: $3m$19m cash 6 2017: 6 and inventory 3 2017: 3.
Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require afull scope audit for Group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed or were included in the scope of our Group reporting work in order to provide further coverage over theGroups results.
121 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Accounts O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The components within the scope of our work accounted for the The Group team visited 6 2017: 10 component locations in USA, percentages illustrated below.
Australia, Turkey, Japan, Switzerland and Germany 2017: USA, China, France, Italy, Spain, UK, South Africa, Costa Rica, Switzerland and Germany to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Video and telephone GROUP REVENUE GROUP TOTAL ASSETS conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, 15 15 the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, 14 16 and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
W e have nothing to report on going concern 84% 86% 34 The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going 70 concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial Full scope for group audit 14 statements the going concern period.
purposes 2018 13 Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Audit of specic account balances 2018 Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty 14 Full scope for group audit related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
86% 21 purposes 2017 However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as 2017 87% Audit of specic account subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with 66 balances 2017 judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the 72 Residual components absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue in operation.
In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the The remaining 15% 2017: 16% of total Group revenue, 14% 2017: 13% inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model, including of Group profit before tax and 15% 2017: 14% of total Group assets the impact of Brexit, and analysed how those risks might affect the is represented by 73 2017: 73 reporting components, none of which Groups and Companys financial resources or ability to continue individually represented more than 2% 2017: 2% of any of total Group operations over the going concern period.
revenue, Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
For these The risks that we considered most likely to adversely affect the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group Companys available financial resources over this period were: level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks Pricing and reimbursement pressures or currency exchange volatility of material misstatement within these.
leading to a major loss of revenues and profit: The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant Inability to launch new products losing significant market share to areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the the competition: information to be reported back.
The Group team approved component Product liability claims giving rise to significant claims and legal materiality, which ranged from $5 million to $38 million 2017: $3 million fees: and to $19 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 19 of the 36 components Temporary loss of key production capability resulting in an inability 2017: 19 of the 37 components was performed by component auditors to manufacture a key product for a period of time.
and the rest, including the audit of the Parent Company, was performed by the Group team.
The Group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
122 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Accounts O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors UK report continued As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt on the directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 82 the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we considered that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks sensitivities over the level of available financial resources indicated facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business by the Companys financial forecasts taking account of reasonably model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining risks individually and collectively and evaluated the achievability of the how they are being managed and mitigated: and actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position the directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have should the risks materialise.
We also considered less predictable but assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have realistic second order impacts, such as the impact of a disorderly Brexit done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and which could result in a rapid reduction of available financial resources.
their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, the directors statement in page 116 to the financial statements on including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material qualifications or assumptions.
uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months We have nothing to report in this respect.
from the date of approval of the financial statements: or Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 82 the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we ismaterially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were going concern as a key audit matter.
reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
W e have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report Corporate governance disclosures The directors are responsible for the other information presented in We are required to report to you if: the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly statement that they consider that the annual report and financial stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
by us to the Audit Committee.
Strategic report and directors report We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement Based solely on our work on the other information: does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report our review.
and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial We have nothing to report in these respects.
year is consistent with the financial statements: and 6.
W e have nothing to report on the other matters on in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, Directors remuneration report inour opinion: In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Act 2006. from branches not visited by us: or Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: with the accounting records and returns: or 123 S Str tra at teg egic ic r re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Accounts O Ot th her er i in nf for orm ma at tiion on Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related not made: or financial statement items.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations for our audit.
where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance We have nothing to report in these respects.
through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as those most likely 7.
Respective responsibilities to have such an effect: Food and Drug Administration regulations in Directors responsibilities the US and the compliance of business practices with the UK Bribery As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 116, the Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act recognising the regulated directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements nature of the Groups activities.
Auditing standards limit the required including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of regulations to enquiry of the directors and other management and financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements ofaccounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and Auditors responsibilities regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
weoweour responsibilities A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in website at www.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement by the company.
Our audit work has been Irregularities ability to detect undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report, and the be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with the from our general commercial and sector experience and through terms agreed with the company, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest discussion with the directors and other management as required by extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, and legal correspondence and discussed with the directors and other as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with have formed.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of noncompliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from Stephen Oxley Senior Statutory Auditor the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor identified at group level.
Chartered Accountants The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial 15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL statements varies considerably.
21 February 2019 Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with
