Independent Auditors Report to the members of Sophos Group plc only 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Sophos Basis for opinion Group plc the Company for the year ended 31 March We conducted our audit in accordance with International 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Statements of Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable Profit and Loss, Comprehensive Income, Financial law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe Position, Changes in Equity, and Cash Flows, and the that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient Company Only Statements of Financial Position and and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion Changes in Equity and the related notes, including the is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor on 25 January 2001.
In our opinion: The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 18 financial years ended 31 March 2018.
We have the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups loss for independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical the year then ended: requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit the Consolidated financial statements have been services prohibited by that standard were provided.
properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Overview European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Materiality: the parent Company financial statements have been Consolidated properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting financial $6.3m 2017: $5.5m standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting statements as Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: a whole 1% 2017: 1% of group revenue and Coverage 99% 2017: 98% of group revenue the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 Act 2006 and, as regards the Consolidated financial Recurring risks Revenue recognition statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Additional opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued Exceptional items & alternative by the IASB performance As explained in note 3 to the Consolidated financial measures statements, the Group, in addition to complying with Recoverability of its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, parent companys has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International investment in Accounting Standards Board IASB.
subsidiaries In our opinion the Consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
88 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters: The risk Our response Revenue Accounting treatment: Our procedures included: recognition As the Group expands and product portfolios evolve, Controls design: We evaluated the design and $640.7m: there is considerable risk associated with implementation of the control ensuring review 2017: $529.7m recognising revenue on contracts containing and approval of non standard contract terms multiple elements.
Judgement is required in which may impact revenue recognition: Refer to page 58 determining each element of the arrangement and Audit Committee estimating their respective fair values.
The Group Control operation: We evaluated the operating Report, page 102 makes reference to the list prices of individual effectiveness of IT controls over the establishment accounting policy elements and discounts given on the total contract.
of list prices in the sales order system which and page 114 This judgement could materially affect the timing directly impact the fair value calculation: financial and quantum of revenue recognised in each period.
Tests of details: We selected a sample of Group billings from throughout the year and with reference to list prices and discounts given, we recalculated the relative fair values of each element to assess whether the determination of relative fair values of each separable element was in line with Group Policy.
We also reviewed a sample of contracts in the year, assessing the impact of contract terms on revenue recognition: Accounting analysis: We assessed the Groups policy in respect of fair value allocation and revenue recognition against relevant accounting standards: and Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of the Groups disclosure regarding the determination of fair values of multiple element arrangements.
Our results We found the amount of revenue recognised in the year as at 31 March 2018 to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
89 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Sophos Group plc only The risk Our response Exceptional items Presentation appropriateness: Our procedures included: & alternative The Group presents Alternative Assessing principles: We assessed the accounting policy to performance Performance Measures APMs to operating determine whether, in judging what to include in exceptional measures loss for the period within the consolidated items, the Directors took appropriate regard to guidance income statement and throughout the issued by the Financial Reporting Council on the reporting Exceptional items: Annual Report.
The Directors believe that of exceptional items and the requirement to separately $13.2m: 2017: the separate identification of exceptional disclose material or unusual transactions under relevant $31.4m items and the presentation of specified accounting standards: APMs provides clear and useful information Billings $768.6m on the Groups underlying trading Assessing application: We assessed whether the application 2017: $632.1m, performance.
However, when improperly of the accounting policy was consistent, including whether Cash EBITDA used and presented, these kind of measures it was applied to both gains and losses: whether the same $193.7m 2017: might prevent the Annual Report from being category of material items are treated consistently each $150.1m, fair and balanced by focusing on only part of year: and whether the tax effects of exceptional items are the performance.
The determination of explained, by using our knowledge of the Groups transactions Adjusted operating whether an item should be separately throughout the audit: profit $46.1m disclosed as an exceptional item requires 2017: $38.3m judgement on its nature and incidence, and Assessing balance: We assessed whether the disclosure its use along with presentation of APMs of APMs and related commentary of exceptional items and Unlevered Free requires judgement as to whether they APMs placed disproportionate emphasis on those measures Cash Flow $139.6m provide a better understanding of the over the related GAAP measure: whether the APMs were given 2017: $133.4m Groups underlying trading performance.
meaningful labels that are not GAAP terms: whether they were clearly described and explained: whether the APMs provided Refer to page 58 meaningful measures of trading performance: whether their Audit Committee presentation are in line with guidance issued by the FRC and Report, page 109 European Securities and Markets Authority with respect to accounting policy APMs: and whether the underlying financial information is and pages 109-111 otherwise misleading: and financial disclosures.
Assessing transparency: We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosure of the definition and composition of APMs and exceptional items, including whether APMs were appropriately reconciled to GAAP terms with sufficient prominence given to that reconciliation.
Our results We found the presentation of exceptional items and APMs to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Recoverability Forecast based valuation: Our procedures included: of parent The carrying amount of the parent Our sector experience: Challenging the assumptions used companys companys investments in subsidiaries is in the cash flows included in the discounted cash flow investment in significantly in excess of the net assets model by using our sector experience through evaluating subsidiaries of the Group as a whole, and is assessed the current level of trading, including identifying any $1,099.1m: for recoverability using a discounted indications of a downturn in activity, by examining the 2017: $1,068.4m cash flow model to calculate value in use post year end management accounts and considering VIU.
Due to the inherent uncertainty our knowledge of the Group and the market: Refer to page 59 involved in forecasting and discounting Audit Committee future cash flows for a VIU model, this is Benchmarking assumptions: Assessing the Report, page 142 one of the key judgemental areas that our reasonableness of key external inputs, such as projected accounting audit concentrates on.
long term economic growth and discount rates, by policy and page benchmarking these against those used by comparable 143 financial listed companies: disclosures.
Historical comparison: Assessing the reasonableness of the budgets by considering the historical accuracy of the previous forecasts: and Comparing valuations: Comparing the sum of the discounted cash flows to the Groups market capitalisation to assess the reasonableness of those cash flows.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the recoverability of the carrying amount of the parent companys investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
90 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Group Revenue Group Materiality 3.
O ur application of materiality and an overview $640.7m 2017: $529.7m $6.3m 2017: $5.5m of the scope of our audit M ateriality for the Consolidated financial statements as a whole was $6.3m 2017: $5.5m, determined with $6.3m reference to a benchmark of Group revenue of which it Whole financial statements represents 1% 2017: 1%.
We consider Group revenue materiality 2017: $5.5m to be the most appropriate benchmark as it provides a more stable measure year on year than Group loss $4.4m before tax.
Range of materiality at M ateriality for the parent company financial statements 9 components as a whole was set at $5.9m 2017: $3.9m determined $4.4m-$5.9m 2017: $1m to $3.9m with reference to a benchmark of total assets of which at 12 components is represents 0.6% 2017: 0.3%.
W e agreed to report to the Audit Committee all Group revenue corrected or uncorrected misstatements exceeding Group materiality $0.31m 2017: $0.25m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative $0.31m grounds.
Misstatements reported O f the Groups 27 2017: 28 reporting components, to the audit committee 2017: $0.25m we subjected 7 2017: 10 to audits for Group reporting purposes and 2 2017: 2 to specified riskfocused audit procedures over tax.
The latter were not individually significant enough to require an audit for Group Group revenue Group billings reporting purposes, but did present specific individual % 1 risks that needed to be addressed.
% % 2 1 T he components within the scope of our work % % accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
99 100 % % 2017: 98 2017: 99 F or the residual components, we performed our % % analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine 98 99 % % our assessment that there were no significant risks 99 100 of material misstatement within these.
Group total assets Group loss before tax T he Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to % 5 % be reported back.
The Group team approved the 5 component materialities, which ranged from $4.4m to % % % % 14 7 80 73 $5.9m having regard to the mix of size and risk profile % % 2017: 89 2017: 70 of the Group across the components.
The work on 5 of % % 89 70 the 7 components 2017: 6 of the 10 components % % 80 73 was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 T he Group team visited 2 2017: 1 component locations Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 in Germany and India 2017: Germany to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Video and telephone conference Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 meetings were also held with these component auditors Residual components and the majority of the others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
91 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Sophos Group plc only Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Based on the knowledge we acquired during our We are required to report to you if: financial statements audit, we have nothing material we have anything material to add or draw attention to add or draw attention to in relation to: to in relation to the Directors statement in note 3.2 the Directors confirmation within the Directors to the financial statements on the use of the going Viability Statement page 86 that they have carried concern basis of accounting with no material out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group, including those that would threaten its the Group and Companys use of that basis for a business model, future performance, solvency period of at least twelve months from the date of andliquidity: approval of the financial statements: or the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks the related statement under the Listing Rules set and explaining how they are being managed and out on page 86 is materially inconsistent with our mitigated: and audit knowledge.
the Directors explanation in the Directors Viability We have nothing to report in these respects.
Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and 5.
W e have nothing to report on the other why they considered that period to be appropriate, information in the Annual Report and their statement as to whether they have a The Directors are responsible for the other information reasonable expectation that the Group will be able presented in the Annual Report together with the to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial they fall due over the period of their assessment, statements does not cover the other information and, including any related disclosures drawing attention accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in this respect.
in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is Corporate governance disclosures materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial We are required to report to you if: statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in we have identified material inconsistencies between the other information.
the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that Strategic report and Directors report they consider that the annual report and financial Based solely on our work on the other information: statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information we have not identified material misstatements in the necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups strategic report and the Directors report: position and performance, business model and in our opinion the information given in those reports strategy: or for the financial year is consistent with the financial the section of the annual report describing the statements: and work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately in our opinion those reports have been prepared in address matters communicated by us to the accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Audit Committee: Directors remuneration report We are required to report to you if the Corporate In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Governance Statement does not properly disclose a Report to be audited has been properly prepared in departure from the eleven provisions of the UK accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
92 Cybersecurity made simple Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Irregularities ability to detect 6.
W e have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the by exception financial statements from our sector experience, and Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to through discussion with the Directors as required by report to you if, in our opinion: auditing standards.
adequate accounting records have not been kept We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our directly affect the financial statements including audit have not been received from branches not financial reporting including related company visited by us: or legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the the parent Company financial statements and the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be as part of our procedures on the related financial audited are not in agreement with the accounting statement items.
records and returns: or We communicated identified laws and regulations certain disclosures of Directors remuneration throughout our team and remained alert to any specified by law are not made: or indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
we have not received all the information and This included communication from the Group to explanations we require for our audit.
component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level, with a request to report on any We have nothing to report in these respects.
indications of potential existence of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities in 7.
Respective responsibilities these areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of page 86, the Directors are responsible for: the non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws preparation of the financial statements including being and regulations irregularities irregularities, as these satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, control as they determine is necessary to enable the misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: 8.
T he purpose of our audit work and to whom assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to we owe our responsibilities continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, This report is made solely to the Companys members, matters related to going concern: and using the going as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to Companies Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease by the company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
that we might state to the Companys members those Auditors responsibilities matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report, and the further matters we are required to state Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about to them in accordance with the terms agreed with the whether the financial statements as a whole are free company, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our responsibility to anyone other than the Company and opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in Robert Seale Senior Statutory Auditor aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor influence the economic decisions of users taken on Chartered Accountants the basis of the financial statements.
15 Canada Square London A fuller description of our responsibilities is E14 5GL provided on the FRCs website at www.
