INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPECTRIS PLC Opinion In our opinion: the Financial Statements of Spectris plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Company Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated and Company Statement of Financial Position: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: and the related Consolidated Notes 1 to 34 and Company Notes 1 to 15.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets in two of the Groups cash generating units Concept Life Sciences CLS and Millbrook: and Recognition and valuation of customer relationships intangible assets in the CLS acquisition.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the Consolidated Financial Statements was 12.0 million which was determined on the basis of 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Scoping Full scope audit work was completed on 47 components and specified audit procedures were undertaken on a further 20 components.
Our full scope and specified audit procedures covered 70% 2017: 74% of total Group revenue and 93% 2017: 91% of Group statutory profit before tax.
Significant changes in A significant proportion of the Groups material components are classified as full audit scope our approach components consistent with the previous year.
Following changes in the Group structure, risk profile and other qualitative factors we brought two new components into scope for the year ended 31 December 2018.
These new components were CLS, which was acquired in January 2018, and Brel & Kjr EMS, which is a new joint venture entered into in May 2018.
Another significant change is the removal of two key audit matters disclosed in our opinion in the year ended 31 December 2017.
These were: Override in the application of the Group inventory provision accounting policy for obsolete, excess and slow-moving inventory items: and Accuracy of provisions for taxation in respect of dividends received from EU based companies.
These are no longer key audit matters as we do not expect that a reasonable probable movement in these provisions is likely to have a material impact in the financial statements.
84 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and Viability Statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We have reviewed the Directors statement on page 83 to the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and Viability Statement We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 32 to 36 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 37 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Spectris plc 85 Spectris plc 85 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPECTRIS PLC continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets Key audit matter Total goodwill and intangible assets at 31 December 2018 were 766.3 million 2017: 627.5 million and description 263.3 million 2017: 209.9 million respectively.
We focused our impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets testing on the goodwill in two cash-generating units CGUs, being CLS 105.5 million and Millbrook 58.1 million, based on growth assumptions and levels of headroom.
There is a risk surrounding the recoverability of these balances, as assessed annually by management as part of their goodwill impairment review using discounted cash flows on a value in use basis.
The key judgements in assessing goodwill and intangible assets for impairment are the discount rate, the longterm growth rate, and the short-term projected cash flows.
The value in use model is sensitive to changes in these estimates, all of which must reflect a long-term view of underlying growth in the respective economies within which these businesses operate and the reasonableness of projected cash flows.
Specifically, we have pinpointed this significant risk to the discount rate and short-term future cash flows in the two CGUs above and material judgements contained therein.
This is where the highest degree of sensitivity exists to determining the value in use.
We note that estimating a value in use is inherently judgemental, and a range of assumptions can reasonably be applied in determining the estimates mentioned above.
In respect of CLS, our challenge resulted in changes to managements initial impairment model where certain cash flow assumptions were not deemed to be reasonable from an impairment model perspective.
Our challenge was based on historical CLS cash flows achieved, performance in FY18 being adverse to managements expectations, and external market and peer data.
The Audit Committee Report on page 55 refers to impairment of goodwill and other intangibles as an area considered by the Audit Committee.
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements sets out the Groups accounting policy for testing of goodwill and intangibles for impairment.
The basis for the impairment reviews is outlined in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including details of the discount rates and longterm growth rates used.
Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements also includes details of the extent to which the CGUs to which the goodwill and other intangible assets are allocated are sensitive to changes in the key inputs.
We draw attention to the disclosure included within this note of reasonable possible changes that could result in an impairment.
How the scope of Our procedures for challenging managements methodology and assumptions focused on both cash-generating our audit responded units discussed above and included: to the key audit assessing the design and implementation of the controls in the impairment review process: matter validating the integrity of managements impairment model through testing of the mechanical accuracy and verifying the application of the input assumptions: understanding the underlying process used to determine the risk adjusted cash flow projections: evaluating the process management undertook to prepare the cash flow forecasts in its impairment model including agreement with the latest Board approved plans and management approved forecasts: challenging the cash flow projections through assessing the accuracy of historical budgeting by comparing them with actual performance and independent evidence to support any significant expected future changes to the business: considered a range of available market data and performed a peer benchmarking exercise to assess and challenge the growth rates forecasted by management in revenue and margins: considered the potential impact of Brexit on the cash flow projections: considered reasonable possible changes in assumptions to challenge the appropriateness of managements assessment of reasonable possible change scenarios: and our challenge was informed by input from certain of our internal Valuations specialists, utilising their knowledge and expertise in relation to the discount rate and the market in which CLS operates.
Key observations Based on the work performed as outlined above, we consider the key assumptions taken by management to be reasonable and supportable, and therefore we are satisfied that no impairment exists.
In relation to CLS, we were satisfied with managements revised impairment model which shows that the value in use is in line with the carrying value.
This was on the basis that the assumptions applied, when taken in aggregate, are within our acceptable range.
86 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Valuation of the customer relationship intangible asset in the acquisition of Concept Life Sciences Key audit matter During the year Spectris plc acquired Concept Life Sciences CLS for gross consideration of 166.9 million.
description In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, management has recognised the identifiable assets and the liabilities at their acquisition date fair values.
We have identified a key audit matter specifically in relation to the assumptions applied in respect of the Purchase Price Allocation PPA exercise.
This includes identifying where intangible assets arise and the relevant Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC and forecast cash flow assumptions used in valuing these intangible assets.
The primary intangible asset identified is customer relationships of 36.8m and we pinpointed the risk to the key assumptions in forecast revenue growth, gross profit margin growth, discount rate and customer attrition rates.
The associated disclosure is included in Note 11.
The Audit Committee has included their assessment of this risk on page 55 and it is included within the key sources of estimation uncertainty in Note 1.
For specifics of the Groups accounting policy please see page 100.
How the scope of Our procedures for challenging managements key assumptions in relation to the CLS acquisition included: our audit responded assessing the design and implementation of the controls to address the key audit matter: to the key audit evaluating the acquisition balance sheet and fair value adjustments including challenging management matter with regards to the identification and valuation of intangible assets: challenging managements assessment of useful economic life of the customer relationship asset, the reasonableness of the forecast upon which this asset is based and profitability pertaining to this intangible through the use of valuation experts and benchmarking: assessing the methodology used in the excess earnings method used by management to value the intangible asset: incorporating valuation specialists into our team to assess the valuation methodology and certain key assumptions including the discount rate: and reviewing post acquisition trading in conjunction with the risk of impairment as noted in Key Audit Matter description.
Key observations Based on the work performed as outlined above, we are satisfied that the acquisition of CLS, and in particular the valuation of the customer relationship intangible asset, has been appropriately accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Spectris plc 87 Spectris plc 87 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPECTRIS PLC continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Consolidated Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Materiality 12.0 million 2017: 9.0 million 4.0 million 2017: 3.6 million Basis for determining We have used 5% 2017: 5% of adjusted profit Company materiality was set at approximately materiality before tax as the benchmark for determining 35% 2017: 40% of Group materiality and materiality.
equates to 0.5% of the Companys net assets.
Rationale for the Adjusted profit before tax is a key performance Net assets are considered an appropriate benchmark applied measure for management, investors and the benchmark for the Company given that it is mainly a holding company.
This metric is important to the users of the Financial Statements investors and analysts being the key users for a listed entity because it portrays the performance of the business and hence its ability to pay a return on investment to the investors.
Likewise, this metric takes into account the acquisitive nature of the Group which results in adjusting items needing to be considered when determining the performance of the business.
Materiality Adjusted PBT 241.4m Group materiality 12.0m Group materiality 12.0m Component materiality range 4.0m to 3.5m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.5m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.5 million 2017: 0.45 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
88 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements An overview of the scope of our audit The Group operates in more than 30 countries spread across five continents with the largest footprint being in North America, Asia and Europe.
Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group and component level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the four segments, managed via 14 operating companies located and controlled across different geographical regions, and the Group head office function.
These 14 operating companies are composed of many individual components, which are the lowest level at which management prepares financial information that is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company is located in the UK and is audited directly by the Group audit team.
We have considered components on the basis of their contribution to Group revenue, and operating profit, as well as those that require local statutory audits in their jurisdiction.
Full scope audit work was completed on 47 components and specified audit procedures were undertaken on a further 20 components.
Our full scope and specified audit procedures covered 70% 2017: 74% of total Group revenue and 93% 2017: 91% of Group operating profit.
Each component in scope was subject to an audit materiality level between 3.5 million and 4.0 million.
This audit work on all components was performed by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited member firms under the direction and supervision of the Group audit team.
Further work was performed at a Group level over the consolidation and components not in scope.
We communicated the results of our risk assessment exercise to the component auditors and instructed them on the areas of significant risk, the procedures to be performed and the form and timing of their reporting to us.
We also provided direction on enquiries made by the component auditors through online and telephone conversations.
All the findings noted were discussed with the component auditor in detail and further procedures to be performed were issued where relevant.
The Group audit team followed a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that on a rotational basis the Senior Statutory Auditor, or a senior member of the Group audit team, visits each of the primary operating companies where the Group audit scope was focused in addition to the work performed at the Group head office.
In relation to the current year audit the Senior Statutory Auditor, or a senior member of the audit team, visited South Korea, China, Denmark, Germany, Netherlands, USA and various locations in the UK.
7 Review at group level Review at Full audit scope Full audit scope 30 group level 19 40 Profit Revenue Specified audit before tax procedures 74 Specified audit 30 procedures Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included We have nothing in the Annual Report, other than the Financial Statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
to report in respect of these Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise matters.
explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Spectris plc 89 Spectris plc 89 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPECTRIS PLC continued Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors Report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team including significant component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations, pensions, IT and industry specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: Impairment of the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets in two of the Groups cash generating units CLS and Millbrook: Valuation of the customer relationship intangible asset in the acquisition of Concept Life Sciences: and Revenue recognition through inappropriate cut-off.
obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the Financial Statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, pensions legislation and tax legislation.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified impairment of the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets in two of the Groups cash generating units CLS and Millbrook, and valuation of the customer relationship intangible asset in the acquisition of Concept Life Sciences as key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters.
More specifically in relation to the revenue recognition risk we performed the following procedures: assessed the design, implementation and in some cases the operating effectiveness of the controls to address the significant risk: traced a sample of revenue recognised over a period in December 2018 to supporting evidence to assess whether appropriate cut-off was applied and that performance obligations have been satisfied: considered material contracts with multiple performance obligations and assessed the identification of separate performance obligations, the timing of revenue recognition and the evidence of the performance obligations being satisfied: challenged the appropriateness of accrued income recognised by tracing a sample to supporting evidence of work performed: and obtained a schedule of adjusting and manual journals posted in December 2018 with a credit impact on revenue and traced a sample to appropriate evidence in support of the adjustment.
90 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the Financial Statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board on 28 July 2016 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2017and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is two years, covering the years ending 31 December 2017 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the Audit Report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Mark Mullins FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, UK 19 February 2019 Spectris plc 91 Spectris plc 91
