Independent Auditors Report to the members of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion: the Financial Statements of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31st December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related Notes 1 to 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and 1 to 11 for the Parent Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the nonaudit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Revenue recognition in relation to cut off for certain components and revenue recognition on any significant new and or one-off contracts.
Defined benefit pension liability valuation focusing on the judgements and assumptions made by management.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year are identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group Financial Statements was 11.4m 2017: 9.6m which was determined on the basis of 5% of profit before tax adjusted for certain one off gains in the year including 47.4m gain on disposal of subsidiary, 6.5m gain on disposal of property and 6.0m past service cost credit from freezing of the pension scheme benefits in the US scheme 2017: 5% of statutory profit before tax.
Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 28 components.
These components represent the principal business units and account for 93% of the Groups net assets, 73% of the Groups revenue and 80% of the Groups profit before tax.
Significant changes Last year our report included an acquisition accounting key audit matter focussing on the valuation of inour approach intangible assets arising for two acquisitions made in 2017.
As there were no material acquisitions in 2018, this matter is not included in our report.
There have been no material adjustments made to the 2017 acquisition accounting and it is not considered to be a key audit matter for the Group Financial Statements.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 125 Annual Report 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the Directors statement on page 122 of the Governance Report about whether they nothing material to report, considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their add or draw attention to in identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over respect of these matters.
a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent nothing material to report, with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the add or draw attention to in evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going respect of these matters.
concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 28 to 33 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 89 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 89 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue recognition Key audit matter The Group generates revenue primarily from the sale of goods with revenue being recognised on delivery or description despatch.
There is a significant risk due to the potential for fraud through possible manipulation of revenue.
We have identified two key areas of focus in relation to cut off for revenue recognition.
These areas of focus are: Potential overstatement of revenue within certain components where a significantly higher proportion of annual revenue is recognised in December 2018 compared to the rest of the year.
The key audit matter for these components focuses on the recognition of revenue by reference to the contracted shipping terms and the transfer of control for product despatches and deliveries spanning year end.
There is a focus on any significant new and or one-off contracts spanning the year end to determine whether any specific alternative revenue recognition policies are required to ensure revenue has been recorded within the appropriate period.
Refer to Note 1 for the Groups revenue recognition policy and the significant issues section of the Audit Committee Report on page 84.
126 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 How the In response to the key audit matter described above, we performed a risk assessment across the Group to identify scope of specific areas of risk, focussing our testing accordingly.
Our audit response consisted of several procedures including our audit those summarised below.
responded to We performed walkthroughs to understand the adequacy of the design and implementation of the controls relating to the key audit the revenue cycle.
At significant components, we mapped the end-to-end controls and processes in place.
matter We reviewed the product despatch cycle and revenue recognition profile across the year end period and sampled a selection of items confirming the date of transfer of control was in line with the revenue recognition date in accordance with the terms of trade with customers.
We focused our procedures on those components with a higher than average volume of trade in December 2018.
We audited a sample of contracts spanning the year end, challenging the performance obligation and the associated revenue recognition.
Key From the work performed above we are satisfied that there are no material cut-off errors and revenue recognition for observations significant new contracts is appropriate.
Defined benefit pension liability valuation Key audit At 31st December 2018 the gross retirement benefit liability recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial matter Position was 526.1m 2017: 543.0m.
There is a risk of material misstatement relating to the judgements made description by management in valuing the defined benefit pension liabilities including the use of key model input assumptions specifically the discount rate, mortality assumption and inflation rate.
These variables can have a material impact in calculating the quantum of the retirement benefit liability.
Refer to Note 1 for the Groups policy on defined benefit plans, Note 24 for the financial disclosure including the key estimates and assumptions used in the defined benefit pension plan valuation and the significant issues section of the Audit Committee Report on page 84.
How the We used our internal actuarial specialists to assess the key assumptions applied in determining the pension obligations scope of for the five main pension schemes three in the UK, one in Germany and one in the USA, and determined whether our audit the key assumptions are reasonable.
Testing covered 96.9% 2017: 97.1% of defined benefit pension liabilities.
responded to For each of the five schemes, we challenged managements key assumptions by reference to illustrative benchmark the key audit rates, sensitising any difference between managements rates and the illustrative benchmark rates.
Additionally we matter benchmarked the key assumptions against other listed companies to check for any outliers in the data used.
Key From the work performed above we are satisfied that the key assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the observations schemes liabilities are appropriate.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 127 Annual Report 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Materiality 11.4m 2017: 9.6m 4.2m 2017: 3.9m Basis for determining materiality 5% of statutory profit before tax adjusted for a Parent Company materiality equates to 5% of 47.4m gain on disposal of subsidiary, a 6.5m profit before tax, which is capped at 40% of gain on disposal of property and a 6.0m past Group materiality service cost credit from freezing of pension scheme benefits in the USA 2017: 5% of statutory profit before tax.
Rationale for the benchmark We have adjusted the statutory profit before tax In determining our final materiality based on our applied for certain adjusted measure gains recognised professional judgement we have considered in the current year when determining materiality net assets as the appropriate measure given as this is considered to be a key benchmark the Parent Company is primarily a holding used by investors.
We then capped materiality at the highest component materiality for the Group.
Group materiality 11.4m Adjusted PBT 228.9m Component materiality range 4.2m to 3.2m Audit Committee reporting threshold Adjusted PBT 0.5m Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 530,000 2017: 490,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 28 2017: 28 components.
25 2017: 25 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 3 components 2017: 3 components were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those components.
These components represent the principal business units and account for 93% 2017: 86% of the Groups net assets, 73% 2017: 70% of the Groups revenue and 80% 2017: 78% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 3.2m to 4.2m 2017: 2.9m to 3.9m.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the key components where the Group audit scope was focused on a rotational basis and the most significant of them at least once a year.
In the current year and prior year we visited the UK, USA, China and South Korean components.
As part of these visits, meetings were held with both component management and the component audit team.
For all components, we held close calls after they reported into us and as deemed necessary, reviewed their work papers.
128 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 7% 7% 20% 27% profit before Revenue Total assets 6% tax 71% 74% 86% 2% Full audit scope Full audit scope Full audit scope specified audit specified audit specified audit procedures procedures procedures Review at Review at Review at Group level Group level Group level Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to included in the Annual Report, other than the Financial Statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 129 Annual Report 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors Report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: o identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and r egulations and whether they were aware of any instances of noncompliance: o detecting and r esponding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: and o the inter final controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team, including significant and material component audit teams in UK, USA, China and South Korea, and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, pensions and IT regarding how and where fraud might occur in the Financial Statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: o manipulation of assumptions used to value defined benefit pension liabilities identified as a key audit matter : o manipulation of revenue recognition to improve performance identified as a key audit matter : obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the Financial Statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, pensions legislation and tax legislation.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified the following as key audit matters: cut off for revenue recognition in certain components and accounting for contracts spanning year end: and valuation of defined benefits pension liability focussing on management judgements and assumptions used in valuation.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the Financial Statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams in UK, USA, China and South Korea, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
130 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2018 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors these matters.
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors and subsequently at the Annual General Meeting on 11th May 2014 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ending 31st December 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is five years, covering the years ending 31st December 2014 to 31st December 2018.
Consistency of the Audit Report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Mark Mullins FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 6th March 2019 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 131 Annual Report 2018 Financial Statements
