FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC OPINION In our opinion: Spirent Communications plcs Group financial statements and parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Spirent Communications plc which comprise: Group Parent Company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 Balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Related notes 1 to 17 to the financial statements including then ended asummary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 37 to the financial statements, including asummary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant toour audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, andwe have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on page 26 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed ormitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 100 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principalrisks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 100 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 100 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, overwhat period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have areasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the periodof their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
102 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters Inappropriate revenue recognition Recoverability of deferred tax assets Carrying value of goodwill Group and investments in subsidiary undertakings parent Company only Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of three components and audit procedures onspecific balances for a further five components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 93 per cent of profitbefore tax adjusted for non-recurring items, 93 per cent of revenue and 96 per cent of total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of $3.5 million which represents 5 per cent of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation ofresources in theaudit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk tothe Audit Committee Inappropriate Revenue Recognition We performed full and specific scope audit procedures We concluded that revenue recognised in the year, and Refer to the Audit Committee Report overthis risk area in four locations, which covered page 68 : Accounting policies page 93percent of Group reported revenue.
For revenue deferred as at 31December 2018, is materially correct 121 : and note 3 of the consolidated ineachfull and specific scope audit location: financial statements page 126. on the basis of our We performed walkthroughs of significant classes procedures performed.
The Group has reported revenues of ofrevenue transactions and assessed the design $476.9 million 2017 $454.8 million.
effectiveness of key controls: The Group enters into multi-element For a sample of transactions in each location, we contracts comprising software, hardware agreed revenue recognised to sales contracts focusing and post-contract support service on the allocation of revenue in contracts with separate elements.
Such arrangements can be components consisting of hardware, software and complex or judgemental and can require support services.
This included recalculating revenue separate recognition of the different allocations, agreeing revenue to cash receipts and, where elements of revenue in order to comply appropriate, testing whether revenue had been deferred with Group accounting policies and IFRS.
correctly at year end: We performed detailed testing of the completeness Furthermore, pressure on management and valuation of deferred revenue and other associated to meet certain targets may result in balance sheet accounts by selecting a sample of inappropriate recognition of revenue transactions included within these balances to ensure and associated balances which may lead they have been recognised in accordance with Group to judgement over revenue recognition accounting policies and IFRS: on transactions completed closer to the We performed cut-off testing by tracing a year end.
sample of revenue transaction close to the yearend to third party delivery notes and customer This risk is consistent with the prior year.
acceptance documentation: We validated managements approach to determining their best estimate of relative standalone selling prices in accordance with IFRS: For a sample of transactions, we performed procedures to ensure that the transaction price was allocated to separate performance obligations on a reasonable and consistent basis: We tested a sample of journal entries made to revenue specifically focusing on significant manual or unusual journal entries to revenue to test whether each entry is supported by an appropriate, underlying business rationale, is properly authorised, accounted for correctly and properly recorded in the correct period: and We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the accounting policies for revenue recognition under IFRS 15 as disclosed in notes 2 and 3 including the impact of the Groups adoption of IFRS 15 in note 37.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC CONTINUED Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk tothe Audit Committee Recoverability of deferred tax assets Procedures on the deferred tax assets were performed We concluded that Refer to the Audit Committee Report centrally by the Group team supported by overseas teams managements judgements page 68 : Accounting policies page including specialists: inrelation to the extent of 124 : and note 25 of the consolidated recognition of deferred tax financial statements page 145.
We performed walkthroughs of the tax process and assets is appropriate.
assessed the design effectiveness of key controls: The Group has deferred tax assets With the assistance of our EY Tax specialists, we have of $22.0 million 2017 $23.2 million.
evaluated managements rationale for the forecast There is a risk that inappropriate periods selected in determining the likelihood of the recognition of brought forward tax losses Group generating suitable future profit to support the and other temporary differences due to recognition of deferred tax assets: the volatility in forecast taxable income We evaluated the historical accuracy of forecasting may result in incorrect recognition and taxable profits, the integrity of the forecast models and disclosure of deferred tax assets.
the consistency of the projections with other forecasts madeby management and approved by the Board: Furthermore, there is risk of incorrect We formed our own view of the Groups capacity application of legislative changes to to obtain effective tax relief for tax losses and other deferred tax recognition.
temporary differences over the forecast period: With the assistance of our US Tax specialists, we The risk has decreased from the prior assessed the completeness and correctness of year due to the improving performance managements assessment of the impact of the US Tax of the Group.
reform and its correct application of the methods to calculate deferred tax assets: We considered the impact of the restrictions on recognising carry forward losses and assessed the correctness of managements assessment that they would be used during the forecast period: and We considered the accuracy and appropriateness of related disclosures and offsetting of deferred tax balances in theGroup financial statements.
Carrying value of goodwill Group, Procedures on the carrying value of goodwill and We concluded that there is investments in subsidiary undertakings were performed no goodwill impairment as at and investments in subsidiary undertakings parent Company centrally by the Group team: 31 December 2018.
We note that whilst the performance Refer to the Audit Committee Report With the support of our valuation specialists, we page 68 : Accounting policies page of Connected Devices has assessed the discount rate used by obtaining improved during the year 123 : and note 13 of the consolidated the underlying data used in the calculation and financial statements page 139. there remains judgement benchmarking it against comparable organisations with regards to the expected The Group has goodwill of and market data: future cash flows as a result of $155.7 million 2017 $156.8 million and We validated the growth rates assumed by comparing the upcoming 5G technology.
investments in subsidiary undertakings them to economic and industry forecasts: We also concluded that there of 366.6 million 2017 351.8 million.
We challenged management on the achievability of the is no impairment required to cash flow forecasts, the downside risk relating to Brexit parent Company investments.
Given the continuing uncertain political and possible US-China trade wars, and we assessed the and economic environment, there is a projected financial information against original forecasts risk that goodwill in the Group financial and other market data to assess the robustness of statements and investments in the parent managements forecasting process: Company financial statements may We analysed the historical accuracy of budgets to actual be overstated.
results to determine whether forecast cash flows are reliable based on past experience: In 2016 management impaired goodwill We performed sensitivity analyses by testing key relating to the Connected Devices assumptions in the model to recalculate a range segment by $41.3 million down to its of potential outcomes in relation to the size of the recoverable amount.
Headroom for headroom between carrying value and fair value: this segment has increased following We have compared the carrying value of the CGUs to improving profitability, however we the market capitalisation of the Group: and continue to monitor this segment We considered the appropriateness of the related in particular.
disclosures provided in note 13 to the Group financial statements.
The risk has decreased from the prior year due to the improving performance of the Group.
104 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope foreach entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We takeinto account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the reporting components of the Group, we selected components covering entities within the United Kingdom, North America and Asia, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the eight components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of three components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining five components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
2018 2017 % of Group % of Group adjusted adjusted Reporting profit % of Group % of Group profit before % of Group % of Group Components Number before tax Revenue Assets See Note Number tax Revenue Assets Full Scope 3 104% 83% 73% 1,2 3 95% 84% 61% Specific Scope 5 11% 10% 23% 3,4, 5 5 5% 9% 33% Full and Specific scope coverage 8 93% 93% 96% 8 90% 93% 94% Remaining components 16 7% 7% 4% 6 20 10% 7% 6% Total Reporting components 24 100% 100% 100% 28 100% 100% 100% Profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items as defined in the Our application of materiality section of this report.
Note 1 The Group audit risk in relation to the carrying value of goodwill was subject to full scope audit procedures by the Group audit team on the entire balance.
Note 2 The Group audit risk in relation to the recoverability of deferred tax assets was subject to full scope audit procedures by the Group audit team on the entire balance.
Note 3 One of the five specific scope components relates to the corporate division of the parent Company which includes consolidation and elimination adjustments.
Note 4 The specific scope loss before tax adjusted for non-recurring items coverage of 11 per cent represents four specific scope components having a positive contribution of 15 per cent offset by the corporate component having a negative contribution of 26 per cent.
Note 5 The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of the significant account tested for the Group.
Note 6 Of the remaining components that together represent 7 per cent of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items, none are individually greater than 2 per cent of the Groups profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review procedures and specified procedures to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC CONTINUED Changes from the prior year Our scoping is comparable with the prior year.
We note that the number of Remaining components in the table above has reduced reflecting the 2017 disposal of the Developer Tools DT and Device Intelligence DI line of business and associated components.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the Group audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the three full scope components, audit procedures were overseen on one of these directly by the Group audit partner with the other two performed by component audit teams.
Of the five specific scope components audit procedures were performed on three of these directly by the Group audit team and two by component audit teams.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
At the start of the audit, a Global Team Planning event was held in the UK with representatives from all full and specific scope component audit teams in attendance.
Detailed instructions were sent to all auditors in these locations.
These instructions covered the significant areas that should be addressed by the component team auditors which included the relative risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information to be reported back to the Group audit team.
In addition, the Group audit team continued tofollow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits certain material or high risk locations on a rotational basis.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Group audit team to the component teams in North America and Asia.
These visits involved meeting with our component team to discuss and direct their planned audit approach, holding meetings with local management and reviewing procedures performed to date on the Group risk areas.
The Group team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, including attendance at all closing meetings by phone, review of key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion onthe Group financial statements.
106 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $3.5 million 2017 $2.5 million, which is 5 per cent 2017 5 per cent of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items, of $71.9 million 2017 $50.7 million.
We consider that profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
Detailed audit procedures are performed on material non-recurring items.
We determined materiality for the parent Company to be 3.0 million 2017 2.8 million, which is 1 per cent 2017 1 per cent of net assets.
ParentCompany materiality is higher than Group materiality as it is calculated on a different basis as it is primarily a head office companyrather than the trading group.
STARTING BASIS Profit before tax $61.2 million 2017 profit before tax $46.6 million ADJUSTMENTS Adjusted for non-recurring items: Exceptional costs of $13.1 million 2017 $6.7 million Gain on divestments of $2.4 million 2017 $2.6 million MATERIALITY Profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items $71.9 million basis for materiality 2017 $50.7 million Materiality of $3.5 million 2017 $2.5 million 5 per cent of materiality basis Management make further adjustments to profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items basis for materiality to arrive at adjusted operating profit, the measure used by the directors to evaluate the overall performance of the Group.
These adjustments include intangible asset amortisation of $3.7 million 2017 $6.3 million, Share based payment expense of $2.8 million 2017 $2.2 million, and net interest income of $1.3 million 2017 $0.3 million.
Adjusting for these items gives adjusted operating profit of $77.1 million 2017 $58.9 million.
The $1.0 million increase in materiality is in proportion to the $21.2 million increase of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items 2018 $71.9 million, 2017 $50.7 million.
That increase is a result of the $18.2 million increase in adjusted operating profit 2018 $77.1 million, 2017 $58.9 million, the $2.6 million reduction in intangible asset amortisation 2018 $3.7 million, 2017 $6.3 million, and the $1.0 million increase in net finance income 2018 $1.3 million, 2017 $0.3 million partially offset by a $0.6 million increase in share based payment expense 2018 $2.8 million, 2017 $2.2 million.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and the only change in final materiality was to reflect the actual reported performance of the Group in the year.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC CONTINUED Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level theprobability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was thatperformance materiality was 75 per cent 2017 75 per cent of our planning materiality, namely $2.6 million 2017 $1.8 million.
Wehave set performance materiality at this percentage to ensure that total detected and undetected audit differences do not exceedour planning materiality of $3.5 million 2017 $2.5 million for the financial statements as a whole.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based onthe relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was $0.4 million to $1.3 million 2017$0.3 million to $1.1 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of $0.17 million 2017 $0.12 million, which is set at 5 per cent of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of otherrelevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, including the strategic report set out on pages IFC to 53, corporate governance and directors report set out on pages 96 to 100, and other information set out on pages 180 to 187 other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, wearerequired to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the otherinformation.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet thefollowing conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 68 the statement given by the directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting set out on page 68 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately addressmatters communicated by us to the Audit Committee or is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 58 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
108 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement withthe accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 101, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as agoing concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a highlevel of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC CONTINUED EXPLANATION AS TO WHAT EXTENT THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDINGFRAUD The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to thereporting framework IFRS, FRS 101, the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
We understood how Spirent Communications plc is complying with those legal and regulatory frameworks by making enquires of management, Internal Audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the Company Secretary.
We corroborated our enquires through our review of Board minutes and papers provided to the Audit Committee.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their propensity to inuence efforts made by management to manage earnings.
Weconsidered the programmes and controls that the Group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those programmes and controls.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of Legal Counsel, Groupmanagement, Internal Audit, and component management.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed auditprocedures to address the identified fraud risk as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
In addition, we completed procedures to conclude on the compliance of the disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts with the requirements of the relevant accounting standards, UK legislation and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils FRC website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
OTHER MATTERS WE ARE REQUIRED TO ADDRESS We were appointed by the Company on 3 August 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
Following the recommendation of the Board we were appointed as predecessor firm Lindsay, Jamieson & Haldane by the Group atits annual general meeting on 9 May 1950 to audit the financial statements of the Group for the period ending 31 December 1949 and subsequent financial periods.
Our total uninterrupted period of engagement is 69 years, covering periods from our appointment through to the period ending 31 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent Company and we remain independent of the Group and the parent Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Joe Yglesia Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Reading 7 March 2019 Notes 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Spirent Communications plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does notinvolve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
110 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2018
