INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED We have audited the financial statements of Sports Direct International plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group for the 52-week period ended 29 April 2018, which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the parent Company Balance Sheet, the parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity and notes to the Group and parent financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 29 April 2018 and of the Groups profit for the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
WHO WE ARE REPORTING TO This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 131 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC Continued CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 87 to 93 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation, set out on page 129 of the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement, set out on page 101 of the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement relating to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation, set out on page 130 of the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH 1 Overall materiality: 10.5m, which represents 3.5% of the Group's underlying earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation underlying EBITDA.
Key audit matters were identified for the Group as: - revenue recognition, - carrying value of inventory, - acquisition accounting, - accounting for foreign currency forward contracts and option arrangements, and - control considerations.
The following key audit matter was identified for the Group and parent company: - related party disclosures.
Full scope audit procedures have been performed on the financial statements of Sports Direct International plc and on the financial information of the main trading company within the UK Sports Retail division, Sportsdirect.
Targeted audit procedures have been performed over the financial information of components in the Premium Lifestyle Division which includes Cruise Clothing Limited, The Flannels Group Limited and Van Mildert Lifestyle Limited, Wareshop2 Limited, Republic.
com Retail Limited, SDI Property Limited and overseas components in the United States of America, Austria, Belgium, Ireland and Estonia.
Analytical audit procedures have been performed on all other entities across the Group.
1 Underlying EBITDA excludes realised foreign exchange gains losses in selling and administration costs, exceptional costs, profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, strategic investments and properties.
Underlying EBITDA also excludes the Share Scheme charges.
132 KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those that had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
KEY AUDIT MATTER GROUP HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED IN THE AUDIT GROUP Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: REVENUE RECOGNITION determining whether revenue is recorded in the accounting Revenue is recognised in accordance with the Group's accounting policy system consistent with the accounting policy and considering the and International Accounting Standard IAS 18: Revenue.
The majority appropriateness of that policy: of Group revenue is recorded through Electronic Point of Sale EPOS transactions.
checking the accounting entries for a sample of retail transactions and identifying entries not derived from EPOS transactions for further Key to the appropriate recognition of this revenue is the capture of the EPOS data and the Group operates a control to ensure the completeness investigation: and accuracy of this data as it is transferred into the accounting system.
testing, on a sample basis, that licencing and wholesale sales are Other material sources of revenue are from web sales, wholesale sales recognised appropriately by checking to underlying arrangements and from licencing agreements for brands owned by the Group.
licencing, or subsequent cash receipts wholesale : Under International Standard on Auditing ISA UK and Ireland testing the completeness and accuracy of the EPOS data from tills 240 there is a presumption that there are risks of fraud in revenue through to head office: recognition.
The revenue recorded by the Group is also one of the key determinants of Group underlying EBITDA, which is the primary financial testing a sample of sales transactions in stores to till reports and cash Key Performance Indicator KPI for the Group.
Therefore, we identified banked: revenue recognition as a significant risk, which was one of the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement.
testing the reconciliation of internet sales receipts in total to cash received: and This risk is unchanged from the prior period.
analytically reviewing sales trends at an individual store level and by product type to identify trends and variances that would require further substantive testing.
KEY OBSERVATIONS Based on our audit work we did not identify any material instances of revenue not being recognised in accordance with stated accounting policies.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 133 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC Continued KEY AUDIT MATTER GROUP HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED IN THE AUDIT GROUP Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: CARRYING VALUE OF INVENTORY testing the underlying inventory provision model used for The carrying value of inventory is stated net of provisions for obsolete or mathematical accuracy by re-performing the calculations: slow moving inventory.
Managements methodology calculates provision levels by applying an approach based on risk assessments covering considering the appropriateness and consistency of the underlying seasonal inventory, Group brands, inventory type, and expected sale assumptions within the model: coverage.
challenging managements assessment of the assumptions applied, We identified the carrying value of inventory as a significant risk because and reviewing the reports management use to verify the ongoing of the complexity of this calculation and the judgement and assumptions appropriateness of provision levels: applied by management in assessing the amount of provision required to record inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
We testing the selling price of a sample of inventory sold post period end therefore identified carrying value of inventory as a significant risk, against its carrying value: and which was one of the most significant assessed risks of material challenging key estimates and judgements in managements overall misstatement.
inventory provision risk assessment paper.
This risk is unchanged from the prior period.
The Group's accounting policy on inventories is shown in note 1 and related disclosures are included in note 21.
The Audit Committee identified the carrying value of inventory as an area of significance in its report on page 111, where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this area.
KEY OBSERVATIONS Based on our audit work, we are satisfied that the judgements made and assumptions used by management in determining the carrying value of inventory were balanced and supported by the evidence obtained from our testing.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING obtaining and assessing managements acquisition accounting paper In May 2017, the Group completed the acquisition of the trade and in relation to the acquisition: assets of US based Bobs Stores and Eastern Mountain Sports.
obtaining the asset purchase agreement and agreeing consideration We identified the acquisition of Bobs and Eastern Mountain Stores as a risk because of the size of the acquisition and the judgement and paid to bank statements: assumptions applied by management in assessing the fair value of performing an onsite visit in the US and verifying significant balances the assets and liabilities acquired and any identified intangibles.
We on the acquisition balance sheet: therefore identified acquisition accounting as a significant risk, which was one of the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement.
considering and challenging the assumptions underpinning fair value adjustments: This risk is new in the period due to the size and nature of the transaction.
recalculating areas where there has been a change in accounting policy to align with the Group policies: and assessing whether the disclosures in the financial statements in relation to acquisition accounting were compliant with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
The Group's accounting policy on acquisitions is shown in note 1 and related disclosures are included in note 31.
The Audit Committee identified the acquisition of Bobs and Eastern Mountain Sports as an area of significance in its report on page 111 where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this area.
KEY OBSERVATIONS Based on our audit work, we are satisfied that the judgements made and assumptions used by management in determining the fair value of assets and liabilities on acquisition are supported by evidence obtained from our testing.
134 KEY AUDIT MATTER GROUP HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED IN THE AUDIT GROUP Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: ACCOUNTING FOR FOREIGN CURRENCY FORWARD CONTRACTS AND OPTION ARRANGEMENTS obtaining the documentation of hedging strategy and risk management objectives: The Group has a number of forward currency contracts and option arrangements that are classified as derivative financial instruments and obtaining details of foreign exchange contracts from banking are accounted for under IAS 39: Financial instruments: Recognition and institutions and agreeing those instruments held to management's Measurement.
hedge effectiveness assessment: We have identified accounting for forward currency contracts as a comparison of the banks valuations to managements external significant risk for the current period audit due to the quantum of valuations and investigating any significant differences: instruments entered into in the current and prior periods and the total number of open contracts at the period end.
testing the calculations prepared by management to confirm the hedging arrangements remained effective in accordance with the The potential accounting treatment of the fair value movements in requirement of IAS 39: the instruments has a significant impact on the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of other comprehensive income.
obtaining and confirming that the hedge designation documentation was compliant with the IAS 39 requirements for new relationships The long-term nature of these instruments could have a material impact entered into in the year on the future results of the Group.
We therefore identified accounting for foreign currency forward contracts as a significant risk, which was one challenging management forecasts to ensure that the highly of the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement.
probable criteria was met for a sample of hedged relationships.
The Group's accounting policy on forward currency contracts is shown in note 29 and related disclosures are included in note 37 and in the strategic report.
The Audit Committee identified the accounting for forward currency contracts and option arrangements as a risk in its report on page 111, where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this risk.
KEY OBSERVATIONS Based on our audit work, we concluded that foreign currency forward contracts have been accounted for in accordance with IAS 39.
CONTROL CONSIDERATIONS Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: The Group has a number of associates and investments which have assessing the accounting for associated undertakings and continued to increase across the period.
investments against the relevant accounting standards, including IAS 28 and IAS 39: We have control considerations as a risk because of the judgement involved in assessing whether control or significant influence exists and considering and challenging managements paper setting out the the impact this could have on the financial statements.
We therefore requirements of within IFRS 10 and the requirement to consolidate identified control considerations as a significant risk, which was one of companies under the control of the Group: the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement.
understanding and challenging managements reasons where This risk is new in the current period, due to the increased strategic significant influence does not exist and where associate accounting investments activity during the period.
has not been applied: and obtaining sufficient and appropriate audit evidence to support the rebuttal of presumed significant influence for holdings of over 20%, as required by IAS 28, Investments in Associates: and challenging the disclosures of judgements applied by management on the application of the standards within the financial statements.
The Group's accounting policy on accounting for associates, investments and options is shown in note 1 and related disclosures are included in note 37.
The Audit Committee identified this as an area of significance in its report on page 111, KEY OBSERVATIONS Based on our audit work, we are satisfied that the judgements and assumptions used by management in determining whether control or significant influence exists was balanced and did not identify any material misstatements.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 135 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC Continued KEY AUDIT MATTER GROUP AND PARENT HOW THE MATTER WAS ADDRESSED IN THE COMPANY AUDIT GROUP AND PARENT COMPANY Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES updating our knowledge of related party relationships through The objective of IAS 24: Related Party Disclosures is to ensure the enquiries of management, review of board meeting minutes and financial statements draw attention to the possibility that the financial searches of company information databases: position and financial performance of the Group and parent company may have been affected by the existence of related party transactions.
obtaining managements related party paper including workings for disclosures in the annual report: We have identified related party disclosures as a significant risk for the current period audit given that this has the potential to impact the performing searches for related party transactions on the Group's assessment of the Group and parent company operations by users of the accounting records using data interrogation software and comparing financial statements.
There has also historically been significant media to those identified by the Group and parent company: and regulator interest in the Group and parent company.
We therefore identified related party disclosures as a significant risk, which was one of obtaining supporting documentation for a sample of related party the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement.
transactions: and This risk is unchanged from the prior period.
challenging disclosures of related party relationships and transactions in the financial statements to assess their completeness and accuracy.
The Group and parent company related party disclosures are included in note 37.
The Audit Committee identified related parties as an area of significance in its report on page 111, where the Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this area.
KEY OBSERVATIONS Based on our audit work, the related party disclosures in the financial statements are complete in all material respects.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality in determining the nature, timing and extent of our audit work and in evaluating the results of that work.
Materiality was determined as follows: MATERIALITY MEASURE GROUP PARENT Financial statements as a whole 10.5m, which is 3.5% of the Groups 7.9m, which is 1% of the companys total underlying earnings before interest, tax, assets, capped at 75% of group materiality.
depreciation and amortisation underlying This benchmark is considered the most EBITDA.
This benchmark is considered the appropriate because the parent company is a most appropriate because this is the measure holding company with minimal transactional against which the performance of the Group is activity.
measured both internally and externally.
Materiality for the current period is similar to Materiality for the current period is higher the level that we determined for the 53-week than the level that we determined for the period ended 30 April 2017.
53-week period ended 30 April 2017 to reflect increased underlying EBITDA in the current period as a result of stronger performance.
The measurement percentage used of 3.5% remains unchanged from the prior period.
Performance materiality used to drive the 75% of financial statement materiality.
extent of our testing Specific materiality We also determine a lower level of specific We also determine a lower level of specific materiality for certain areas such as directors materiality for certain areas such as directors remuneration and related party transactions.
remuneration and related party transactions.
Communication of misstatements to the audit 500,000 and misstatements below that 375,000 and misstatements below that committee threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
136 The graph below illustrates how performance materiality interacts with our overall materiality and the tolerance for potential uncorrected misstatements.
Overall materiality - group Overall materiality - parent 25% 25% Tolerance for potential uncorrected mistatements Performance materiality 75% 75% AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our audit approach was based on a thorough understanding of the Group's business and is risk based, and in particular included: Continuing to evolve our audit approach, which resulted in advanced audit procedures during the interim review period 6 and January 2018 period 9.
Our procedures focused on revenue occurrence testing, obtaining the updated inventory provision, challenging the updated dilapidations model, testing of property, plant and equipment additions, testing of available-for-sale financial assets and an assessment of the accounting for forward currency contracts: An onsite visit to the US in March 2018 to finalise our audit work in respect of the acquisition of the trade and assets of US based Bobs Stores and Eastern Mountain Sports and gain a better understanding of the acquired businesses: Evaluation by the Group audit team of identified components to assess the significance of each component and to determine the planned audit response based on a measure of materiality.
For those components that were evaluated as significant, either a full-scope or targeted audit approach was taken based on their relative materiality to the Group and our assessment of the audit risk.
For significant components requiring a full-scope approach, we evaluated controls over the financial reporting systems identified as part of our risk assessment and addressed critical accounting matters.
We then undertook substantive testing on significant transactions and material account balances: In order to address the audit areas described above and identified during our planning procedures, we performed a full-scope audit of the financial statements of the parent company, Sports Direct International plc and on the financial information of the main trading company within the UK Sports Retail division, SportsDirect.
The operations that were subject to full-scope audit procedures made up 54% of consolidated revenues and 95% of underlying EBITDA: Targeted audit procedures have been performed over the Premium Lifestyle Division which includes Cruise Clothing Limited, The Flannels Group Limited and Van Mildert Lifestyle Limited, Wareshop2 Limited, Republic.
com Retail Limited, SDI Property Limited and overseas components in the United States of America, Austria, Belgium, Ireland and Estonia: The operations that were subject to targeted audit procedures made up 46% of consolidated revenues and 2% of underlying EBITDA: The remaining operations of the Group were subject to analytical procedures over the balance sheet and income statements of the relevant entities with a focus on applicable risks identified above and the significance to the Groups results and financial position: and SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 137 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC Continued Where the audit work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient, appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Detailed audit instructions were issued to the component auditors where a targeted audit approach had been identified.
The audit instructions detailed the significant risks to be addressed through the audit procedures and indicated the information we required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
We were involved in the planning of the audit work for overseas components and performed site visits to component auditor locations in Austria and Ireland, which included a review of the audit work performed by the component auditors.
Where the component auditors of components subject to a targeted approach were not visited, a review of audit working papers was conducted remotely.
The Group audit team communicated with all component auditors throughout the planning, fieldwork and concluding stages of their audit work.
The chart below demonstrates the coverage of audit procedures: Revenue Underlying EBITDA 3% 4% 2% 46% 50% 95% Comprehensive Targeted Analytical Comprehensive Targeted Analytical OTHER INFORMATION The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 1 to 130, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
138 In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 129 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on page 108 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 102 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
OUR OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 ARE UNMODIFIED In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and those reports have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: the information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and information about the companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT UNDER THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in: the Strategic Report or the Directors Report: or the information about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in compliance with rules 7.2.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 139 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPORTS DIRECT INTERNATIONAL PLC Continued MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the parent company.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 129, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
We are responsible for obtaining reasonable assurance that the financial statements taken as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that material misstatements of the financial statements may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance with the ISAs UK.
Our audit approach is a risk-based approach and is explained more fully in the An overview of the scope of our audit section of our audit report A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
140 OTHER MATTERS WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO ADDRESS Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the board of directors on 10 February 2007 to audit the financial statements for the period ended 29 April 2007 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement as auditor is 12 years, covering the 52-week period ended 29 April 2007 to the 52-week period ended 29 April 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the parent company in conducting our audit.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
Philip Westerman Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London 18 July 2018 SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 141
