Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SSE PLC 1 Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of SSE plc the Company for the year ended 31 March 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, Company Balance sheet, Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes, including the accounting policies in notes 1 and A1.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders during the period of the Companys incorporation in 1998.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 20 financial years ended 31 March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2017 in relation to the Group audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our approach Carrying value Forecast-based estimate Our procedures included: Certain consolidated non-current assets Assessing methodology: Assessing the principles of the cash flow model and of certain tangible and intangible being the Groups agreeing certain of the underlying inputs such as prices, gas and oil reserves, consolidated exploration and production interests, the capacity payments and operating costs adopted in the estimate to source non-current Groups Great Island gas fired power station documents: assets and the Glendoe hydro electric plant are Our sector experience: Using our sector experience and specialists, assessing significant and at risk of impairment due and challenging the directors judgement on the discount rate adopted and on Refer to page 112 Audit to a number of global and national factors the net present value arising from the models: Committee Report, pages 155 and 203 accounting reducing their value triggering an impairment Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures about the policy and page 179 assessment.
These include ongoing low sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key financial disclosures.
commodity prices, the unpredictability assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of non-current assets.
of reserves in relation to exploration and Risk direction: production assets, the uncertainty arising Our results unchanged from implementation of a new wholesale We found the carrying values of the non-current assets to be acceptable electricity market in Ireland and additional 2017: acceptable.
unrecovered costs sustained in construction.
The estimated recoverable amount is subjective due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows 240 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 The risk Our approach Accounting Subjective estimate Our procedures included: A portion of the revenue recognised on the Test of detail: We agreed the opening unbilled income debtor to last years for estimated Groups energy sales is based on estimates audit file, agreed the volume data for customer usage of energy for the year revenue of the values of electricity and gas supplied used in the calculations to the external settlements systems and agreed the recognition to customers between the date of the last volume data in relation to customer billings for the year to SSEs internal billing 1.1bn: 2017: meter reading and the year end estimated systems.
We compared the prices applied to that volume with current actual 0.8bn revenues.
internal billing trends and data and investigated any material differences identified: Refer to page 112 Audit Benchmarking assumptions: in order to assess the estimated revenue made The method of estimating such revenues Committee Report, pages 155 and 200 accounting by the Group, we compared this estimated volume with benchmarks, based is complex and judgemental and requires policy and page 186 entirely on externally derived settlements data for the period preceding the estimates and assumptions to: financial disclosures.
year end that the Group has developed over a number of years.
As it has, as 1. estimate the volumes of energy consumed its basis, externally derived settlements data for the period when the unbilled by customers subsequent to the meter Risk direction: income is most likely to have arisen, this is considered to be the most reliable reading.
The Group calculates the volumes unchanged method of benchmarking the annual calculation.
We have analysed, sought of unbilled starting with the closing unbilled and assessed explanations for variances from that: volume reflected within the financial Analytical procedures: We set expectations as to the likely level of total statements in the prior year, and then revenue including unbilled revenue and compared this with actual revenue seeking to reflect annual usage of gas or including unbilled revenue obtaining explanations for any significant electricity by the Groups customers as differences: identified from the industry wide settlements Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures system making adjustments as necessary about the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the estimated revenue.
for amounts for which the Group may not be able to raise bills, and then deducting gas or electricity billed during the year to Our results customers as identified from the Groups We found the level of estimated revenue to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
billing system to derive the estimate of unbilled income at the end of the year: and 2. assess the value to be ascribed to that volume given the range of tariffs.
Group and Subjective valuation Our procedures included: Small changes in the assumptions and Assessing valuers credentials: We assessed the independence and parent pension estimates used to value the Groups and competence of the Groups external actuaries obligation parents pension obligation before deducting Benchmarking assumptions: We challenged, with the support of our own Group: 3.9bn: scheme assets would have a significant effect actuarial specialists, the key assumptions applied, being the discount rate, 2017: 4.3bn: on the carrying value of the Groups pension mortality and inflation rate by comparing against externally derived data.
The valuation of this is inherently In order to assess the reasonableness of these assumptions, we performed 2017: 1.7bn subjective.
a benchmarking exercise against other companies assumptions: and Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures Refer to page 112 Audit in respect of the sensitivity of the obligation to these assumptions Committee Report, pages 156 and 206 accounting policy and page 193 Our results financial disclosures.
We found the estimate of the pension scheme obligation to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Risk direction: unchanged In our audit report for the year ended 31 March 2017 we included provision for GB retail receivables as a key audit matter.
We continue to perform audit procedures in this area.
However, we have assessed this year, reflecting the age of GB retail receivables and the provisioning applied, that a material misstatement is not likely and, as a result, we have not assessed this as a risk that is a key audit matter and, therefore, this is not separately identified in our report this year.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 74m 2017: 75m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, before exceptional items and certain re-measurements mainly fair value movements on derivatives as disclosed on the face of the income statement, of which it represents 5% 2017: 5%.
We consider Profit before tax before exceptional items and certain re-measurements to be the most appropriate benchmark because it excludes the non-recurring distorting impact of exceptional items such as reorganisation costs and impairment charges and of certain re-measurements and therefore produces a more stable benchmark than profit before tax.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 70m 2017: 70m, determined with reference to a benchmark of company net assets, of which it represents 2% 2017: 1.4%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 3m 201: 3m, in addition to any other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This level was selected and agreed with the Audit Committee as, given the nature and scale of operations, adjustments under this level were not deemed to be of specific interest to them.
SSE plc Annual Report 2018 241 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SSE PLC CONTINUED Of the Groups 147 2017: 165 reporting components, audits for group reporting purposes were performed by the Group team at 113 2017: 136 components in the UK and by 1 component team in the UK 2017: 3 components in the UK and Ireland.
These represent all components that we considered to be individually financially significant.
These audits accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: 96% 2017: 97% of Group revenue, 98% 2017: 99% of Group profit before tax: and 94% 2017: 98% of Group net assets.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group team instructed one 2017: three component auditor in relation to the audit of the Groups most significant joint arrangement as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the component materiality for this component, which amounted to 30m, 2017: 25m having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
Telephone calls were held with the component auditor including with the partner of the component auditor as part of the assessment of the audit risk and strategy.
As part of the close out process further calls were held with component auditors and on these calls the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditors.
The Group team reviewed the audit file of the component auditor.
4 We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in Note 1.2 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 112 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
5 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within the Group Principal Risks and Viability Statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Group Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Group Principal Risks and Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
242 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
7 Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 140, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of utilities regulation recognising the nature of the Groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
William Meredith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 319 St Vincent Street Glasgow G2 5AS 24 May 2018 SSE plc Annual Report 2018 243
