148 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements OPINION In our opinion: St. Jamess Place plcs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fairview of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows forthe year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of financial position as at 31 December 2018: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements inthe UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality:15.0 million 2017:17.0 million, which represents 4.9% of underlying cash generated inthe year.
Overall Parent Company materiality:13.0 million 2017:10.1 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Audit scope The Group financial statements comprise the consolidation of approximately 60 individual components, each ofwhich represents an individual legal entity within the Group or consolidation adjustments.
We assessed each component and considered the contribution it made to the Groups performance in the year, whether it displayed any significant risk characteristics and or whether it contributed a significant amount to any individual financial statement line item.
The above assessment resulted in us identifying nine components that required audit procedures for the purpose ofthe audit of the Group financial statements.
Eight of the nine components are based in the UK and were audited by the PwC UK audit team.
The remaining component is based in the Republic of Ireland and was audited by PwC Republic of Ireland.
By performing audit procedures on these nine components we achieved coverage greater than 85% of each materialfinancial statement line item within the Groups financial statements.
We performed a full scope audit of all material line items in the Parent Companys financial statements.
Key audit matters Valuation of investments with a judgemental valuation, being investment property and derivatives.
Valuation of the prepayment asset in respect of the development of an administration platform at anoutsourcedprovider.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 149 The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the Group and Parent Company and its industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to breaches of UK and Irish regulatory principles, such as those governed by the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority and the Central Bank of Ireland, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements of the Group and Parent Company.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements of the Group and Parent Company such as the Companies Act 2006, the UK and Irish tax legislation.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of overrideof controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to increase revenue or reduce expenditure, and management bias in accounting estimates specifically investments with a judgmental valuation, being investment property and derivatives and the valuation of the prepayment asset in respect of the development of an administration platform at an outsourced provider see Key Audit Matters.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors referred to in the scoping section of our report below, so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors included: Enquiries of compliance, risk, internal audit, and the Groups legal function, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud: Testing of the whistleblowing email address and discussion with the whistleblowing champion: and: Reading key correspondence with the Prudential Regulation Authority, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Central Bank of Ireland inrelation to compliance with laws and regulations: Reviewing relevant meeting minutes including those of the Board, Audit Committee and Risk Committee: Reviewing data regarding policyholder complaints, and the Groups register of litigation and claims, in so far as they related to non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud: Procedures relating to the valuation of investments with a judgmental valuation, being investment property and derivatives and the valuation of the prepayment asset in respect of the development of an administration platform at an outsourced provider described in the related key audit matters below: Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account combinations or posted by senior management: Designing audit procedures to incorporate unpredictability around the nature, timing or extent of our testing: and Testing disclosure Note 17 affected by the regulatory solvency requirements of the Prudential Regulation Authority.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, wereaddressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide aseparate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
co. uk 150 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC C ON T I N U E D Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of investments with a judgemental valuation, Financial assets including derivatives beinginvestment property and derivatives Our audit procedures focused on the evidence available over the The Group financial statements include 84.6 billion of investments.
processes outsourced to State Street.
The investments are mostly straight forward instruments and do not We obtained and read the International Standard on Assurance require significant judgement in calculating the valuation of Engagements ISAE 3402 Assurance Reports on Controls at a theholdings.
Service Organisation for State Streets Global Fund Accounting and However 1.8 billion of the investments are in derivatives and Custody operations, which provided a description of the systems and investment properties, which require management to use estimates controls in place and the results of testing of the operational and judgements in order to calculate the year-end valuation.
Due to effectiveness of those controls.
the magnitude of these balances and the level of judgement involved, We placed reliance on the controls described in the ISAE 3402 report this was an area of focus for our audit.
over the valuation of the financial investments within the portfolio.
SJP outsources investment valuation activities for financial assets, We independently re-priced a sample of investments, including including derivatives, to State Street.
The investment property derivatives, as at the year end.
We compared our independent prices portfolio is managed by Orchard Street, with title deeds held by to those provided by State Street.
DLAPiper and regular valuations are performed by CBRE.
Investment properties We reconciled the listing of properties valued by CBRE to details provided by Orchard Street and also agreed the total valuation to thatrecorded by the Group.
We engaged our in house real estate valuation experts to review themethodology and key assumptions used by CBRE in valuing the property portfolio.
We also agreed factual inputs to the calculations, such as rental income, to tenancy agreements on a sample basis.
From the evidence obtained we found the valuation of investments tobe appropriate.
Valuation of the prepayment asset in respect of the development In testing whether the asset was valued appropriately and whether of an administration platform at an outsourced provider animpairment was necessary we: agreed amounts capitalised in the year to the service agreement The Group is charged costs by DST Systems Limited DST in respect and cash payments to DST: and of a new policy administration platform.
assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions underlying These costs are recognised as a prepayment to be unwound over managements discounted cash flow analysis calculating the theduration of the related service agreement with DST.
The balance anticipated future cost savings that support the valuation of of the prepayment asset at 31 December 2018 was 236.4million.
The maximum prepayment that can be recognised is capped at the agreed that the cost savings had been calculated using appropriate net present value of future cost savings.
We performed a sensitivity analysis on the inflation and discount rate assumptions as well as business flow levels to Due to the nature and magnitude of the amount arising from the determine the potential impact of changes in these assumptions contractual terms, the valuation of the prepayment asset was an tocheck whether they would affect the carrying value of the asset.
areaof focus for our audit.
considered the headroom available under what we considered to bereasonably possible downside scenarios and whether additional disclosure was necessary.
We determined that the accounting, recognition and disclosure of theasset in the financial statements was supported by the evidence obtained.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Parent Company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is structured to reflect its vertically integrated wealth management business and operates predominantly within the United Kingdom.
Three of the components within the Group required an audit of their complete financial information.
Of these, two components St. Jamess Place UK plc and St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited were considered financially significant.
The remaining component St. Jamess Place International plc had specific risk characteristics which led us to include in our scope an audit of its complete financial information.
St. Jamess Place International plc is a regulated insurance company giving rise to complex accounting entries, such as the calculation of insurance reserves and DAC and DIR balances.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 151 All components aside from St. Jamess Place International plc were audited by PwC UK.
St. Jamess Place International plc is incorporated and regulated in the Republic of Ireland and was audited by PwC Republic of Ireland.
At the planning stage of the audit we provided written instructions to PwC Republic of Ireland to confirm the work we required them to complete and the materiality level they should work to.
Weheld regular phone calls and meetings with the PwC Republic of Ireland engagement leader and senior manager through the planning, execution and completion phases of the audit to inform them of developments at a Group level and to understand from them any local developments that were relevant for our audit of the Group.
During the execution phase, senior members of the UK engagement team visited the Republic of Ireland and we obtained access to their electronic audit working papers and reviewed selected elements of their work, focusing on their work to address the significant and elevated risks identified.
In addition to the full scope audit of the three components noted above, we also performed specific audit procedures on certain financial statement line items within six other components.
These financial statement line items were selected for testing to ensure that we had sufficient coverage of each financial statement line item within the Group financial statements.
Together with additional procedures performed at a Group level on the consolidation, the result of the above scoping was that we achieved greater than 85% coverage of each material financial statement line item within the Group financial statements, giving us the evidence we needed for our audit opinion.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Overall materiality 15.0 million 2017:17.0 million.
How we determined it 4.9% of underlying cash generated in the year.
Rationale for benchmark applied The engagement team concluded that The purpose of the Parent Company is to hold 15.0million is the most appropriate figure investments in other Group companies.
As such whensetting an overall materiality on the 2018 PwC considers it appropriate to use total assets engagement.
The quantum of 15.0million was asthe benchmark for overall materiality.
determined by considering the various benchmarks available to us as auditors, our experience of auditing the Group and the business performance during 2018.
15.0million represents 4.9% of underlying cash generated in the year.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 5.0million and 14.5million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.8million Group audit 2017:0.8million and 0.7million Parent Company audit 2017:0.4million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
In accordance with guidance on the audit of insurers issued in the United Kingdom issued by the Financial Reporting Council we have applied ahigher materiality of 515.0million solely for the purpose of identifying and evaluating the effect of misstatements that are likely only to lead to a reclassification between line items within assets and liabilities.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
For example, financial statements and the directors identification of any material the terms on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to European Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months are not clear, and, in common with other companies, it is difficult to from the date of approval of the financial statements.
evaluate all of the potential implications on the companys business, clients, suppliers and the wider economy, in general terms.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
GoingConcern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
co. uk 152 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC C ON T I N U E D REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to bematerially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report forthe year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, wedid not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement onpages 51 and 142 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR isconsistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, wedid not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement onpages 82 to 93 with respect to the Parent Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the ParentCompany.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity ofthe Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 90 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing theGroup, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 55 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 153 Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 99, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in thecourse of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 94 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, butis not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
APPOINTMENT Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 7 December 2009 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 10 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2018.
JEREMY JENSEN SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 February 2019 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 www.
