Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Committee membership and attendees The Committees composition is kept under review by the Nomination Committee, which is responsible for making recommendations to the Board as to its membership.
All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction to ensure that they have a sound and objective understanding of the principles of, and recent developments in, executive remuneration matters.
Ongoing training is undertaken as required.
For details of Committee members and their attendance please see page 90 of the Report.
Remuneration Committee attendees by invitation Mark Allan Chief Executive Simon Clarke Non-executive director Jane Saint Group HR Director Andrew Eames General Counsel and Company Secretary and secretary to the Committee Representatives from Remuneration Korn Ferry Committee adviser Advice provided to the Committee Korn Ferry was appointed by the Committee with effect from 1 December 2017 following a tender process to provide independent advice on remuneration matters.
Representatives from Korn Ferry attend Committee meetings and provide advice and briefings to the Committee Chairman outside of meetings as necessary.
Fees are charged on a cost incurred basis and the fees charged by Korn Ferry in the year ended 30 November 2018 totalled 77,604.
Korn Ferry is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and operates voluntarily under the Groups code which sets out the scope and conduct of the role of executive remuneration consultants when advising UK listed companies.
Following a tender process Korn Ferry were additionally engaged by management to provide support services for the employee engagement survey undertaken.
Korn Ferry has no other connection with the Company, and the Committee is satisfied that the advice provided on matters of remuneration remains objective and independent.
The Committee also receives input from the Chief Executive and the Group HR Director on the remuneration arrangements of the other executive directors and of the Company Secretary, and advice from the Company Secretary on governance matters.
Neither the Chief Executive nor the Company Secretary were present when their own remuneration was discussed.
Statement of shareholder voting at the AGM The table below details the results of the shareholder vote to approve the Directors Remuneration report at the 2018 AGM.
% of vote 1 Resolution AGM Votes for % of vote for Votes against against Total votes cast Votes withheld Approval of Directors Remuneration report 2018 167,585,033 98.28% 2,927,278 1.72% 170,512,311 1,934,470 1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for or against a resolution.
This report on remuneration has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Jenefer Greenwood Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 February 2019 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 113 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report for the year ended Employee Share Trust the Trust 30 November 2018.
As at 30 November 2018, the Trust held 345,744 shares 2017: 519,906 shares, representing 0.16% 2017: 0.23% of the Companys As permitted by legislation, some of the matters historically issued share capital.
The Trust deed contains a dividend waiver included in this report have instead been included in the strategic provision in respect of shares held by the Trust, such that dividends report on pages 1 to 65 as the Board considers them to be of are waived with the exception of a hundredth of a penny per share.
strategic importance and should be read in conjunction with these Any voting or other similar decisions relating to shares held by the pages.
Specifically these relate to the Companys business model Trust would be taken by the Trustee, who may take account of any and strategy, future business developments and risk management.
There were no purchases of The corporate governance statement as required by the Disclosure shares by the Trust during the financial year.
and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA is set out on pages 66 to 113 and is incorporated into this report Further details regarding the Trust and of shares issued pursuant by reference.
to the Companys share-based incentive arrangements are set out in note 18 to the Group financial statements.
Dividend Rights and obligations attaching to shares An interim dividend of 3.10 pence per ordinary share 2017: The holders of ordinary shares in the Company are entitled to 2.02 pence was paid on 4 September 2018. receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys annual The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.00 pence per report, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, ordinary share in respect of the year ended 30 November 2018 to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Full details of the 2017: 4.26 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 7.1 pence deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to per share 2017: 6.28 pence, payable on 4 April 2019 to be considered at the 2019 AGM are set out in the notice of meeting shareholders on the register on 8 March 2019. on pages 188 to 193.
Other than as referred to under the heading Share capital below, Restrictions on the transfer of shares during the year there were no arrangements under which a As at 30 November 2018 and the date of this report, except as referred shareholder had waived or agreed to waive any dividends nor to below: any agreement by a shareholder to waive future dividends.
there were no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company: Share capital Capital structure there were no limitations on the holding of ordinary shares: The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into there were no requirements to obtain the approval of the ordinary shares of 10 pence each, all ranking pari passu.
Each share Company, or of other holders of ordinary shares in the Company, carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
for a transfer of shares: and At 30 November 2018, there were 222,376,988 ordinary shares in no person held shares in the Company carrying any special issue and fully paid.
Further details relating to share capital are set rights with regard to control of the Company.
out in note 18 to the Group financial statements.
The directors may refuse to register the transfer of a share in Share allotments certificated form which is not fully paid or on which the Company At the 2018 AGM, shareholders renewed the directors authority has a lien, where the instrument of transfer does not comply to allot shares in the Company.
No shares were allotted during the with the requirements of the Companys Articles of Association year.
A resolution to renew this standard authority will be proposed the Articles, or if the transfer is in respect of more than one class at the 2019 AGM.
of share or is in favour of more than four joint holders.
The directors Purchase by the Company of its own shares may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share, which At the 2018 AGM, shareholders renewed the Companys authority represents an interest of at least 0.25% in a class of shares, following to make market purchases of up to 22,237,698 ordinary shares, the failure by the member or any other person appearing to be representing 10% of the issued share capital at that time.
No shares interested in the shares to provide the Company with information were repurchased during the year and the Company does not hold requested under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
This standard authority will expire at the Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST 2019 AGM and a resolution to renew it will be proposed.
and the directors can refuse to register the transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 114 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Directors Conflicts of interest The biographical details of all the directors, including details of their With the exception of service agreements or those contracts relevant experience and other significant commitments, are shown detailed in note 22 to the Group financial statements, no director on pages 70 and 71. had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its operating companies at any time during the year.
The Directors Remuneration report, which includes details of directors service agreements and their interests in the Companys Under the Act, directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts shares, is set out on pages 90 to 113.
Copies of the service of interest with the Company.
As permitted by the Act, the Articles agreements of the executive directors and the letters of enable non-conflicted directors to authorise actual or potential appointment for the non-executive directors are available for conflicts of interest, either with or without limits or conditions.
inspection at the Companys registered office during normal Formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of such business hours and will be available for inspection at the conflicts are in place.
Any potential conflicts of interest in relation Companys AGM.
to newly appointed directors are considered by the Board prior to appointment.
All directors have a continuing duty to update any Appointment and replacement of directors changes to conflicts.
The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Act and Indemnities and insurance related legislation.
Under the Articles: The Company has granted indemnities to each of its directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law in respect the number of directors is not subject to any maximum, of costs of defending claims against them and third-party liabilities.
but must not be less than three, unless otherwise determined These provisions, deemed to be qualifying third-party indemnity by the Company in a general meeting: provisions pursuant to section 234 of the Act, were in force during directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the the year ended 30 November 2018 and remain in force as at the Company or by resolution of the directors, either to fill a casual date of this report.
vacancy or as an additional director: and A copy of the indemnity is available for inspection at the Companys all directors must retire at each AGM and shall, subject to his or registered office during normal business hours and will be available her terms of appointment, be eligible for election or re-election.
for inspection at the Companys AGM.
At the 2019 AGM, Danuta Gray, who was appointed by the directors The Company also maintains directors and officers liability in October 2018, will retire and offer herself for election: all other insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action directors will offer themselves for re-election.
A director may be removed by a special resolution of the Company.
Articles of Association In addition, a director must automatically cease to be a director if The Articles can only be amended, or new Articles adopted, by he or she: a special resolution passed at a general meeting of the Company.
resigns from his or her office by notice in writing to the Company The Companys current Articles are available on its website, or, in the case of an executive director, the appointment is www.
terminated or expires and the directors resolve that his or her office be vacated: Change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement or composition terminate upon a change of control of the Company following with his or her creditors generally: a takeover bid.
These include committed bank facilities, which becomes physically or mentally incapable of acting as a director would be terminable at the banks discretion, and the Companys and may remain so for more than three months, as certified with convertible bonds, holders of which would have an option to a written opinion to the Company by a registered medical require the Company to redeem the bonds.
practitioner who is treating the director: The Companys share-based incentive arrangements contain is absent from meetings of the directors for more than six provisions that take effect in the event of a change of control but consecutive months without permission of the directors and do not entitle participants to a greater interest in the shares of the the directors resolve that his or her office be vacated: or Company than created by the initial grant or award under the relevant plan.
becomes prohibited by law from acting as a director.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors Powers of the directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject employment that occurs specifically as a result of a takeover bid.
to the Articles, UK legislation, including the Act, and any directions given by the Company in general meeting.
Financial instruments The directors have been authorised by the Articles to allot ordinary The Groups exposure to and management of capital risk, market shares and to make market purchases of the Companys own risk, credit risk and liquidity risk is set out in note 17 to the Group shares.
These powers are referred to shareholders for renewal financial statements.
Further information is set out under the heading Share capital on page 114.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 115 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Employee involvement Employment of disabled persons St. Modwen is committed to regular communication and It is the policy of the Company to give full and fair consideration consultation with its employees and encourages employee to applications for employment received from disabled persons, understanding of and involvement in its performance.
News having regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, concerning St. Modwen, its activities and performance is published where practicable, the continued employment of those who may on the Companys intranet.
In the year, the People Matters Group become disabled during their employment with the Company and was established, for further information on this and St. Modwens the provision of appropriate training.
St. Modwen provides the same approach to involving its people please see our people pages on opportunities for training, career development and promotion for pages 31 to 33.
Regular management meetings are held to inform disabled as for other employees.
senior staff about matters affecting them as employees, at which their feedback is sought on decisions likely to affect their interest, Greenhouse gas emissions and where a common awareness of the financial and economic The disclosures required by law relating to the Groups greenhouse factors affecting the Companys performance is developed: this gas emissions GHG are set out in the table beneath.
GHG from information is then cascaded to all employees.
A performancethose sources for which the Company is deemed to be directly related annual bonus scheme and share option arrangements are responsible are monitored for reporting purposes, namely gas designed to encourage and support employee share ownership.
and electricity purchased for consumption at properties under For the 2018 all-employee Saving Related Share Option Scheme the Companys operational control such as its head office, certain Sharesave, options were offered at the maximum 20% discount regional offices, St. Modwen Homes sales offices and vacant space to the market share price and the monthly savings amount was and petrol and diesel used in Company cars and vans.
increased from 250 to 500 in total across all schemes.
For information on our energy initiatives, please see our CSR reports and www.
co. uk  2018 intensity ratio 2017 intensity ratio tCO emissions tCO emissions tCO emissions tCO emissions 2 2 2 2 CO emissions full-time m property CO emissions full-time m property 2 2 1 2 1 2 GHG Tonnes employees portfolio Tonnes employees portfolio Scope 1: Total purchased gas 230.6 107 Petrol and diesel 861.0 781 Total scope 1 1,091.6 2.1 0.7 888 2.1 0.5 Scope 2: Total purchased electricity 255.1 658 Total scope 2 255.1 0.5 0.2 658 1.5 0.4 Total scope 1 & 2 1,346.7 2.6 0.9 1,546 3.6 0.9 1 Equivalent CO emissions per full-time employee.
2 2 Equivalent CO per m of property portfolio held by the Company.
2 Methodology Emissions from gas and electricity consumption have been calculated using the main requirements of the GHG Protocol Standard revised edition and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
The measurement of emissions from Company cars is based on the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance June 2013 issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra.
Defras 2013 conversion factors have also been used within the reporting methodology.
Organisation boundary and responsibility The Company does not have responsibility for GHG that are beyond the boundary of the Companys operational control.
As such, gas and electricity purchased and consumed by tenants is not included within the scope 1 and 2 data above.
Data also excludes the purchase for and consumption by those sites which fall within the Persimmon joint venture as Persimmon controls the procurement of utilities to these sites.
GHG for all other joint ventures has been included as the Company is deemed to be wholly responsible for such GHG.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 116 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Political donations Important events since 30 November 2018 In accordance with the Companys policy, no political donations were There have been no important events affecting the Company made and no political expenditure was incurred during the year.
or any subsidiary since 30 November 2018.
Going concern Auditor The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company and affect its future development, performance and position are set out to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration in the strategic report.
The directors have considered these factors will be proposed at the 2019 AGM.
and reviewed the financial position of the Group, including its joint ventures and associates.
Management report The strategic report and the directors report together comprise The review included an assessment of future funding requirements the management report for the purposes of the FCAs Disclosure based on cash flow forecasts extending for 18 months from the and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
balance sheet date, valuation projections and the ability of the Group to meet covenants on existing borrowing facilities.
The directors are Statement of directors responsibilities satisfied that the forecasts and projections are based on realistic The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and assumptions and that the sensitivities applied in reviewing Group and Company financial statements in accordance with downside scenarios are appropriate.
Having refinanced all our bank debt facilities in December 2017 and Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and agreed an additional facility with Homes England in October 2018, Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that no further refinancing action is required to replace the 100m law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial liquidity provided by our convertible bond ahead of its 2019 statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting maturity.
After adjusting for this maturity, adjusted year-end Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 headroom would be 279m, which provides a robust defence for of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Company the short-term impacts of a hard Brexit, even before the positive Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally impact of any corrective measures we might choose to implement Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom accounting in this eventuality.
Our property portfolio could withstand almost a standards and applicable law, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure 40% fall in values before our tightest covenant would be breached.
Under company law the directors must not approve As a result, the directors are satisfied that the Group will have sufficient the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a ongoing facilities available to meet its financing requirements.
Based true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the on their assessment, the directors believe the Group has adequate Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
available resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, and so determine that it remains appropriate for the financial the directors are required to: statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Disclosure required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R consistently: The information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R of the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant, FCAs Listing Rules can be found on the following pages of this reliable and prudent: Annual Report: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have Section Topic Page reference been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU: 1 Interest capitalised 153 for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any 2 Publication of unaudited information N A material departures disclosed and explained in the Company 4 Details of long-term incentive plans 106 financial statements: established specifically to recruit or assess the Group and Companys ability to continue as a going retain a director concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 5 & 6 Waiver of emoluments by a director N A concern: and 7 & 8 Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for 170 use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either cash intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
9 Parent company participation in placing N A by a listed subsidiary The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 10 Contracts of significance N A records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 11 Provision of services by a controlling N A financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that shareholder the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
12 & 13 Shareholder waiver of dividends 114 They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are 14 Agreements with controlling N A free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and shareholders have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 117 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are responsible for preparing a strategic report, corporate governance statement, Directors Remuneration report and directors report that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors in office as at the date of this report confirms that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Each of the directors in office as at the date of this report considers the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors in office at the date this report confirms that: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Act.
The Directors report, prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Act and the FCAs Listing and Disclosure and Transparency Rules and comprising pages 114 to 118, was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Andrew Eames General Counsel and Company Secretary 4 February 2019 St. Modwen Properties PLC Company No: 00349201 St. Modwen Properties PLC 118 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of St. Modwen Properties PLC 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of St. Modwen Properties Materiality 15.0m 2017: 18.0m PLC the Company for the year ended 30 November 2018 which Group financial comprise the Group income statement, Group statement of statements as a whole 1.0% 2017: 1.0% of total assets comprehensive income, Group balance sheet, Group statement of changes in equity, Group cash flow statement, Company balance Coverage 100% 2017: 99% of Group total assets sheet, Company statement of changes in equity and the related Risks of material misstatement: vs 2017 notes, including the Group accounting policies on pages 132 to 139 Group key New: The impact of and the Company accounting policies on page 178. audit matters uncertainties due to Britain In our opinion: exiting the European Union the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of on our audit the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 November 2018 Recurring: Valuation of and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: investment properties the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Recurring: Carrying value of in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards housebuilding and portfolio as adopted by the European Union: inventory and profit recognition the Company financial statements have been properly prepared on housebuilding sales in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Recurring: New Covent Garden Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Market liability the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with New: Going concern the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Company key Carrying value of investments audit matter in subsidiaries and joint ventures Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
K ey audit matters: including our assessment of risks are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have of material misstatement obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of We were first appointed as auditor by the directors on 23 February material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified 2017.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the two by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall financial years ended 30 November 2018.
We have fulfilled our audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 119 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED The risk Our response The impact of uncertainties Unprecedented levels of uncertainty We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the due to Britain exiting All audits assess and challenge consideration of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in the European Union the reasonableness of estimates, in planning and performing our audits.
Our procedures included: on our audit particular as described in the key audit 1.
Our Brexit knowledge: Considering the directors matters on the valuation of investment Refer to page 82 Audit assessment of Brexit-related sources of risk for the properties, the carrying value of Committee report.
Groups business and financial resources compared housebuilding and portfolio inventory with our own understanding of the risks.
We considered and profit recognition on housebuilding the directors plans to take action to mitigate the risks.
sales and the New Covent Garden Market liability together referred 2.
Sensitivity analysis: When addressing the key audit to as the key audit matters affected, matters affected and other areas that depend on and related disclosures and the forecasts, comparing the directors sensitivity analysis to appropriateness of the going concern our assessment of the worst reasonably possible, known basis of preparation of the financial adverse scenario resulting from Brexit uncertainty and, statements see below.
All of these where forecasts cash flows are required to be discounted, depend on assessments of the future considering adjustments to discount rates for the level economic environment and the Groups of remaining uncertainty.
Assessing transparency: As well as assessing individual In addition, we are required to consider disclosures as part of our procedures on the key audit the other information presented in the matters affected, considering all of the Brexit-related annual report including the principal disclosures together, including those in the strategic risks disclosure and the viability report, comparing the overall picture against our statement and to consider the directors understanding of the risks.
statement that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole Our results is fair, balanced and understandable As reported under the key audit matters affected, we and provides the information necessary found the resulting estimates and related disclosures of for shareholders to assess the Groups the valuation of investment properties, the carrying value of position and performance, business housebuilding and portfolio inventory and profit recognition model and strategy.
on housebuilding sales and the New Covent Garden Market liability and disclosures in relation to going concern to be Brexit is one of the most significant acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict economic events for the UK and at the the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for date of this report its effects are subject a company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
to unprecedented levels of uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range of possible effects unknown.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 120 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The risk Our response Valuation of investment Subjective valuation Our procedures, assisted by our own property valuation properties Valuation of investment properties specialist for procedures 1, 2, 3 and 4, included: 939.3m 2017: 1,168.5m held at fair value is the key area of 1.
Understanding of valuation approach: Meeting with judgement in the financial statements.
Refer to page 81 Audit the Groups external valuers to understand the assumptions It is considered a risk due to its Committee report, page 133 and methodologies used in valuing the investment magnitude, reliance on input data and accounting policy and pages properties and the market evidence used by the external the subjective nature of the valuations, 156 to 159 financial disclosures.
valuers to support their assumptions.
We also obtained particularly the estimates made in an understanding of directors involvement in the relation to market comparable yield valuation process to assess whether appropriate rates and estimated rental value ERV.
Brexit, as discussed in the key 2.
A ssessing valuers credentials: Critically assessing the audit matter above, adds further independence, professional qualifications, competence uncertainties to the valuation and experience of the external valuers used by the Group.
Methodology choice: Critically assessing the methodology used by the valuers by considering whether their valuations were in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards the Red Book and relevant accounting standards.
Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging the key assumptions upon which the valuations were based for a sample of properties, including those relating to ERV and yield rates by making a comparison to our own assumption ranges derived from market data.
This also included considering reasonably possible Brexit effects on the assumptions used in the valuations.
Input assessment: Agreeing observable inputs used in the valuations, such as rental income, occupancy rates, lease incentives, break clauses and lease lengths back to lease agreements for a sample of properties.
Assessing transparency: Critically assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation and sensitivity to key assumptions made when valuing properties.
Our results We found the valuation of investment properties to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 121
