Financial statements independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Standard Chartered PLC Basis for opinion 1 Our opinion is unmodified We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have audited the financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group, for the are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the consolidated obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Group and Company cash flow statements, We were first appointed as auditor by the company before 1973. the Company balance sheet, the Company statement of changes The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for more than the in equity and the related notes, including the accounting policies 46 financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our in Note1.
ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the In our opinion: FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Legal and regulatory matters accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU Credit impairment Information technology The parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Valuation of financial instruments held at fair value as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Goodwill Act 2006 Recoverability of Parent Companys investment in subsidiaries The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation Standard Chartered 226 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information t 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter The risk How our audit addressed the key audit matter Legal and regulatory Estimation uncertainty Our procedures included: matters There are a number of pending and ongoing legal disputes Enquiry of lawyers: Meetings and correspondence and regulatory investigations involving the Group.
In certain Refer to page 73 Audit with the Groups external counsel in the US and UK litigation and regulatory matters significant judgement is Committee Report, page 304 and discussions with the PRA who are in regular Note 24 Provisions for liabilities required by the Group to determine whether a present contact with US and other regulatory bodies to and charges, page 304 obligation exists and whether a provision should be understand the nature and status of legal disputes and Note 25 Contingent liabilities recognised.
If there is a present obligation, there are regulatory investigations in order to determine whether and commitments and significant judgements in determining the measurement page 305 Note 26 Legal and or not a provision should be recognised.
of provisions, which are subject to the future outcome of regulatory matters including accounting policies legal or regulatory processes.
Assessing provisions and contingent liabilities: We critically assessed and challenged the adequacy We focused on the risk of material misstatement arising of provisions and disclosure of contingent liability from ongoing investigations by regulators, specifically in disclosure including the Groups ability to reliably the US relating to the possible violation of US sanction laws estimate any monetary penalties.
Refer to Note 26 under investigations into included comparing assumptions to historical data, legacy financial crime control issues in relation to the approved settlement agreements in similar cases and Groups ongoing discussions with the relevant US enquiry of, and inspection of correspondence with, authorities regarding the resolution of these investigations.
The amounts involved could be potentially significant, and Assessing transparency: Assessed whether the application of accounting standards to estimate the the disclosures related to significant litigation and expected outflow of any liability to be recognised is regulatory matters adequately disclose the potential inherently subjective.
liabilities and the significant uncertainties that exist.
The value of provision liability recognised, for the legal and Our results: We considered the provisions for regulatory matters above, has a high degree of estimation legal and regulatory matters recognised, including uncertainty with a potential range of reasonable outcomes the related disclosures and the contingent liability greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a disclosures made in Note 26, to be acceptable whole.
227 Financial statements independent auditors report Key audit matter The risk Our response Credit impairment Subjective estimate Our procedures included: Charge: $653 million IFRS 9 was implemented by the Group on Control design, observation and operation: We tested the 2017: $1,362 million 1 January 2018.
This new standard requires design and operation of manual and automated controls over the Group to recognise expected credit losses Provision: $5,185 million the ECL including over: ECL on financial instruments which involves 1 January 2018: $6,597 million, The assessment and calculation of material SICR indicators significant judgement and estimates to be made 2017: $5,707 million and criteria by the Group.
Refer to page 73 Audit The review and approval of the macroeconomic base case The carrying value of financial instruments within Committee Report, page 254 used in the ECL calculation the scope of IFRS 9 ECL may be materially Note 8 Credit Impairment The independent model validation function misstated if judgements or estimates made by financial disclosures and accounting policy, page 265 the Group are inappropriate.
The accuracy of critical data elements input into the system Note 13 Financial instruments - used for credit grading and the approval of credit facilities: accounting policy, page 294 Note 15 Loans and advances to The completeness and accuracy of data flows from source banks and customers financial systems into the ECL calculation disclosures and page 141 The ongoing monitoring and identification of loans displaying Credit risk financial disclosures.
indicators of impairment and whether they are migrating, on a timely basis, to a watchlist early alert or to grades 12 to 14 managed by Group Special Asset Management The most significant areas where we identified Assessing SICR thresholds: We have tested the greater levels of management judgement are: effectiveness of the SICR thresholds employed by the Group across material retail and wholesale portfolios.
Significant Increase in Credit Risk SICR the criteria selected to identify a SICR are highly judgemental and can materially impact the ECL recognised for certain portfolios where the life of facilities is greater than 12 months Our economic scenario expertise: We involved KPMG Economic base case IFRS 9 requires the Group to measure ECL on a forward-looking economic specialists to assist us in assessing the appropriateness of the Groups methodology for determining basis, incorporating future macro-economic variables reflecting a range of future conditions.
the base case economic scenario for material macroeconomic variables, and to challenge the base case forecast against The economic base case is the key driver of the range of future conditions market consensus information.
Complex ECL models inherently judgemental Our financial risk modelling expertise: We involved KPMG modelling techniques are used to estimate financial risk management modelling specialists to assist us ECLs which involves determining Probabilities in assessing the appropriateness of material models within of Default PD, Loss Given Default LGD and the Group.
For a sample of material models we assessed the Exposure at Default EAD.
The PD model credit risk modelling approach, reperformed certain aspects of used in the CIB portfolio is the key driver of the the model build and independently evaluated model Groups overall ECL performance results during the year.
Qualitative adjustments adjustments to Assessing qualitative adjustments to model-driven ECL: model-driven ECL results are raised to We assessed the appropriateness of overlays to model-driven address model limitations or emerging risks ECL for CIB, CB and Retail by taking into account the and trends in underlying portfolios which are judgements and estimates the Group has made through the inherently judgemental ECL calculation process including macroeconomic forecasts.
We also considered the performance of ECL models during the year, assessed the appropriateness of proxies and impact of assumptions used in the calculation.
Assessing individual exposures: We selected a sample Individually assessed Stage 3 carrying value based on quantitative thresholds of larger clients where the carrying value of loans and advances to impairment indicators had been identified by the Group.
banks and customers may be materially We obtained the Groups assessment of the recoverability of misstated if individual impairments are not these exposures and challenged whether individual impairment appropriately identified and estimated.
The provisions, or lack of, were appropriate.
This included the identification of impaired assets and the following procedures: estimation of impairment including a range of estimates of future cash flows and valuation of Challenged the different recovery scenarios identified collateral by the Group by comparing to external information including publically available financial performance and The effect of these matters is that, as part of our sale agreements risk assessment, we determined that the value of ECL has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, Challenged the probability weighting assigned to each with a potential range of reasonable outcomes scenario by performing sensitivity analysis greater than our materiality for the financial Assessed external collateral valuers credentials and statements as a whole.
The financial statements compared external valuations to values used in the page 177 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Groups impairment assessments Group.
Our results: We considered the credit impairment charge and provision recognised and the related disclosures to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Standard Chartered 228 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Key audit matter The risk Our response Information technology Control performance Our procedures included: The Groups key financial accounting and reporting Refer to page 74 Audit Committee General IT controls design, observation and processes are highly dependent on the automated Report operation: Tested a sample of key controls operating controls over the Groups IT systems.
There is a risk over the information in relation to financial accounting that gaps in the change management, segregation of and reporting systems, including change duties or user access management controls in relation management, segregation of duties and user access to key financial accounting and reporting systems may management controls.
undermine our ability to place some reliance thereon in our audit.
Change management control operation: Obtained and inspected the change management policies and, for a sample of system changes during the year in relation to financial accounting and reporting systems, confirmed that changes had been performed in line with policy.
Segregation of duties control operation: Tested a sample of the automated controls in relation to financial accounting and reporting systems that are designed to enforce appropriate segregation of duties.
User access management controls operation: We obtained the Groups evaluation of the access rights, including privileged access rights, granted to applications relevant to financial accounting and reporting systems and tested the resolution of a sample of exceptions.
We also assessed the operating effectiveness of controls over granting, removal and appropriateness of access rights, including privileged access rights.
Our results: We considered the change management and segregation of duties controls in relation to financial accounting and reporting systems to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Our testing identified some weaknesses in the design and operation of user access management controls.
As a result we expanded the extent of our testing by performing a combination of testing of mitigating controls and substantive testing to address control weaknesses identified.
Such additional procedures included: Where relevant, evaluated alternative monitoring controls that were performed by the Group Obtained and inspected the last log in dates of users with privileged access, to identify whether they accessed any financial accounting and reporting system during 2018 Obtained and evaluated reports which assessed the coding of the in scope applications to evaluate whether any unauthorised changes have taken place Assessed the nature of user IDs not subject to monitoring controls to ascertain the level of privilege and potential impact on financial and reporting systems Evaluated compensating controls, including reconciliation controls When the above mitigating procedures were performed, we have reduced the audit risk relating to user access management controls to an acceptable level.
229 Financial statements independent auditors report Key audit matter The risk Our response Valuation of financial Subjective estimate Our procedures included: instruments held at fair value The valuation of level 3 financial instruments held at Controls design, observation and operation: Fair value of level 3 asset positions fair value through profit or loss or through other We tested the Groups controls over the identification $2,581 million comprising comprehensive income may be misstated due to the and measurement of level 3 financial instruments 1.0% of total fair value financial application of valuation techniques which often involve including independent price verification controls and instruments 1 January 2018: the exercise of judgement and the use of assumptions pricing inputs.
$2,404 million, 1.6% Methodology assessment: We assessed the A subjective estimate exists for instruments where reasonableness of valuation methodology, model Fair value of level 3 liability positions the valuation method uses significant unobservable calculation, inputs and assumptions used for a $1,046 million comprising 1.0% of inputs which is principally the case for level 3 selection of level 3 positions.
This included considering total fair value financial instrument financial instruments.
potential alternatives and sensitivities to key factors, liabilities 1 January 2018: for example EBITDA and PE multiples for Principal $536 million, 0.5% and 2017: Finance investments.
Our work focused on the following: $536 million, 0.8% Identification of level 3 positions Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Assessing completeness: We assessed the Valuation of level 3 positions, including unlisted Report, page 275 accounting policy methodology applied for the fair value hierarchy.
and page 265 Note 13 Financial investments in the Principal Finance business For a sample of level 2 and 3 financial instruments instruments and derivatives with significant unobservable we challenged the appropriateness of the levelling pricing inputs classification.
This included determining whether level Modelling of, and key inputs into, the valuation of 2 financial instruments met the requisite criteria to be derivative and other instruments classified as level 3 classified as such.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our Our results: We considered the valuation of level 3 risk assessment, we determined that the valuation of financial instruments held at fair value and the related level 3 instruments has a high degree of estimation disclosures to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
The financial statements page 288 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
Standard Chartered 230 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Key audit matter The risk Our response Goodwill impairment Subjective estimate Our procedures included: Impairment: nil Goodwill may be misstated if the carrying value of Methodology assessment: Assessed whether the 2016: $320 million goodwill in the balance sheet is not supported by segmentation of the CGUs, reflects our understanding the estimated discounted future cash flows of the Goodwill: $3,116 million of the business and how it operates including underlying businesses the value in use.
2017: $3,252 million assessment of the independence of the underlying cash flows.
Refer to page 73 Audit Committee The identification of indicators of impairment and the Report and page 297 Note 17 Goodwill and Intangible assets preparation of the estimate of recoverable amount Benchmarking assumptions: For a sample of including accounting policies involves subjective judgements and uncertainties.
CGUs, including those identified opposite, compared the growth rate assumptions to externally derived data for key inputs, including projected economic growth.
Our work focused on cash generating units CGUs which have low headroom or significantly reduced headroom, including: Our expertise: Our valuation specialists critically India assessed the appropriateness of the discount rates for a sample of CGUs including those identified opposite, Pakistan independently calculating discount rate ranges using Taiwan external data sources and peer bank data for local risk free rates, betas and market country entity risk premiums.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that the value of in use has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a Sensitivity analysis: Performing breakeven analysis potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than on the discount rate and the future cash flows.
our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
The financial statements page 298 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
Historical comparison: Assessed the Groups ability to accurately prepare forecasts by comparing to actual results.
Consistency comparison: Assessed the consistency of projected cash flows to the Board approved corporate plan.
Our results: We considered the goodwill impairment recognised, the goodwill balance and the related disclosures to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Company: recoverability of Recoverability of investment Our procedures included: parent Companys investment The carrying value of the parent Companys investment Tests of detail: Compared the carrying amount of a in subsidiaries in subsidiaries represents 54% 2017: 55% of the sample of the highest value investments, representing Investment in subsidiaries Companys total assets.
Recoverability of the 99% 2017: 99% of the total investment balance with $34,853 million 2017: investment is not considered a high risk of significant the relevant subsidiaries balance sheet to identify $34,853 million misstatement or subject to significant judgement.
whether their net assets, being an approximation of However, due to the materiality of the investment in the their minimum recoverable amount, were in excess of Refer to page 73 Audit Committee context of the parent Company financial statements, their carrying amount and assessing whether those Report, page 320 Note 32 Investment this is considered to be the area that had the greatest in subsidiary undertakings, joint subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.
focus of our overall parent Company audit.
ventures and associates including accounting policies Our results: We considered the Companys assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
231 Financial statements independent auditors report Scope general 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview The scoping of our audit is focused on those components which are of the scope of our audit either individually significant or contain significant risks.
Components Materiality subject to specified audit procedures as shown in the table opposite were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at for Group reporting purposes, but were either scoped in on the basis $120 million 2017: $100 million with reference to a benchmark of of the significant volume of liquid assets and transactions processed normalised profit before tax for the year of $3,448 million of which it in those components or contained significant risks which were represents 3.5%.
We have normalised the 2018 profit before tax by covered centrally.
adding back the provisions for regulatory matters see Note 2 as they do not represent normal ongoing business and therefore the The Group operates 9 2017: 8 shared service centres, the outputs benchmark adjusted for this is considered to be the most appropriate of which are included in the financial information of the reporting benchmark to use.
In the prior year we used 4.1% of profit before tax components they service and therefore they are not separate $2,415 million.
All shared service centres where in-scope financial reporting processes are performed were subject to Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole specified audit procedures, primarily over transaction processing was set at $100 million 2017: $100 million, determined with reference and IT controls.
to a benchmark of net assets of $31,848 million 2017: $31,851 million, of which it represents 0.3% 2017: 0.3%.
We considered net assets 2018 2017 to be the most appropriate benchmark as the parent Companys 1 Total Group components 176 172 balance sheet largely consist of investment in subsidiaries and Components subject to full scope for group audit 27 35 intergroup amounts.
Components subject to specified risk focused We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or procedures 4 4 uncorrected identified misstatements affecting Group profit and loss Hubs subject to specified audit procedures 8 8 or Group shareholders funds exceeding $5 million 2017: $5 million and affecting Group assets or liabilities exceeding $50 million 1 Component defined as a reporting component within the Groups consolidation 2017: $50 million, in addition to other identified misstatements system, typically these are either a branch or a subsidiary of the Group that warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
1 Group profit before tax % Group total assets % The Group team instructed component and hub auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks and the 3 12 10 information to be reported to the Group team.
The Group team 2 2 12 10 1 approved the component materiality levels, which ranged from $1 million to $40 million 2017: $1 million to $40 million, having 88% 96% regard to the size and risk profile of the components.
2017: 88% 2017: 98% 87 Group profit before tax Group materiality 88 86 $2.548bn 2017: $2.415bn $120m 2017: $100m 87 $120m 2018 2017 Whole financial statements materiality Full scope for group audit purposes 2017: $100m specified risk-focused audit procedures Residual components 1 Calculation used absolute profit before tax.
Specified risk-focused audit procedures coverage was calculated using absolute income and expenses.
$40m Range of materiality at 31 2017: 39 components: $1m to $40m Team structure 2017: $1m to $40m As part of determining the scope and preparing the audit plan and $5m Misstatements reported to the audit strategy, the Group team led a global planning conference to discuss profit before tax Group materiality committee 2017: $5m key audit risks and obtain input from component and hub teams.
Aside from the audit of the parent Company, consolidation, valuation of financial instruments, modelled expected credit losses, goodwill impairment and material litigation and regulatory provisions all audit work was performed by component or hub auditors.
Standard Chartered 232 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Further, the Group team visited 12 2017: 9 component and hub Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: locations: China, Ghana, Hong Kong, India, Kenya, Malaysia, Nigeria, We have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to Pakistan, Singapore, South Korea, United Arab Emirates and the UK the Directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements on 2017: Bangladesh, China, Hong Kong, India, Malaysia, Singapore, the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material South Korea, the UK and the US.
At these visits and meetings, the uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and findings reported to the Group team and any further work required Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months by the Group team were discussed in more detail.
from the date of approval of the financial statements Aside from the site visits, regular conference calls were also held The related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 126 with the component auditors.
The Group team also inspected the is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge component teams key work papers related to the significant risks and assessed the appropriateness of conclusions and the consistency We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify between reported findings and work performed.
going concern as a key audit matter.
We have nothing to report on going concern 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, approach is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, of approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
that work we have not identified material misstatements in the However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as other information.
subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the Strategic report and Directors report absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report Based solely on our work on the other information: is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue We have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report in operation.
and the Directors report In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the In our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model and year is consistent with the financial statements analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Companys financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going In our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance concern period.
The risks that we considered most likely to adversely with the Companies Act 2006 affect the Groups and Companys available financial resources over this period were: Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Availability of funding and liquidity in the event of a market wide audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the stress scenario Companies Act 2006.
Impact on regulatory capital requirements in the event of an economic slowdown or recession As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt on the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we considered sensitivities over the level of available financial resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking account of reasonably possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these risks individually and collectively and evaluated the achievability of the actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position should the risks materialise.
We also considered less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as those included within the Banks recent stress tests, which could result in a rapid reduction of available financial resources.
233 Financial statements independent auditors report Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements on which we are required to report by exception audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, relation to: in our opinion: The Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on page Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 53 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its from branches not visited by us: or business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity The parent Company financial statements and the part of the The Principal Risks disclosures on page 198 to 212 describing Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement these risks and explaining how they are being managed and with the accounting records and returns: or mitigated Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are The Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they not made: or have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be We have not received all the information and explanations we appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a require for our audit.
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in We have nothing to report in these respects.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing 7.
Respective responsibilities attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Directors responsibilities Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 133, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent preparation of financial statements that are free from material events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no Corporate governance disclosures realistic alternative but to do so.
We are required to report to you if: We have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge Auditors responsibilities we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the statement that they consider that the annual report and financial financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance the Groups position and performance, business model and is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit strategy conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, The section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence by us to the Audit Committee the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance financial statements.
Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the website at www.
Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the Directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
Standard Chartered 234 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Firstly, the group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Secondly, the group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: regulatory capital and liquidity, conduct, financial crime including money laundering, sanctions list and market abuse regulations recognising the financial and regulated nature of the groups activities.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the Directors, and other management, and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
Further detail in respect of legal and regulatory matters is set out in the key audit matter disclosures in section 2 of this report.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nondetection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Paul Furneaux Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 26 February 2019 235
