SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Superdry Plc the Group and Company statements of changes in equity: Report on the audit of the financial statements the Group and Company cash flow statements: and Opinion the related notes 1 to 36.
In our opinion: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent Company financial Companys affairs as at 28 April 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Basis for opinion the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors the Companies Act 2006: and responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Regulation.
Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical We have audited the financial statements of Superdry Plc the Company and its subsidiaries the responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services Group which comprise: prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
the Group statement of comprehensive income: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the Group and Company balance sheets: Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Store asset impairment: Appropriateness of inventory provisioning: and Classification and disclosure of exceptional and other items.
Last years report had the following key audit matters: inventory, accounts receivable, revenue returns, property provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets.
We did not consider these items to be key audit matters in the current year.
Instead, we identified store asset impairment, appropriateness of inventory provision, and classification and disclosure of exceptional and other items as key audit matters in the current year.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 4.7m which was determined on the basis of 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at seven components.
These components represent the principal business units and account for 92% of the Groups net assets, 89% of the Groups revenue and 92% of the Groups underlying profit before tax.
First year audit The 52 weeks ended 28 April 2018 is our first as auditor of the Group.
We confirmed our independence to the Groups Audit Committee on 4 October 2017 and commenced our transition transition which has included: establishing a detailed audit transition plan: holding transition meetings withkey component finance and operational management, Internal Audit, the treasury function, the tax and legal teams and Group finance management in order to inform our audit planning: reviewing the previous auditors audit file: and reviewing historic accounting policies and accounting judgements through discussion with management and review and challenge of managements papers and supporting documentation.
This process built our understanding of the Group which informed our risk assessment process, from which we identified the risks of material misstatement to the Groups financial statements.
We presented our audit plan and transition observations to the Groups senior management and to the Audit Committee throughout the transition process, including in a transition report and audit plan presented in October 2017 and updates to our audit plan in January 2018 and March 2018.
98 26056 26 July 2018 5:00 PM Proof 2 SuperGroup Back Section.
com Our Financials Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 1a to the financial statements and page 50 of the Strategic Report, about We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification attention to in respect of these matters.
of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained attention to in respect of these matters.
in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 51 to 59 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on pages 65 and 66 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 50 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We have determined that there was a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of the value in use calculations used to assess store asset impairment, possible manipulation of the store inventory provision and the classification of exceptional and other items as non-underlying in the Annual Report.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The classification and disclosure of exceptional and other items is a new key audit matter in the year due to the focus on the presentation of Alternative Performance Measures and underlying profit.
Further details are given below.
99 26056 26 July 2018 5:00 PM Proof 2 SuperGroup Back Section.
indd 99 26 07 2018 17:00:57 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Superdry Plc Store asset impairment Under IFRS, the Group is required to complete an impairment review of its store portfolio where there are indicators of impairment.
The impairment review is Key audit completed for each cash generating unit CGU.
A CGU has been determined to be an individual store.
All stores within the Groups portfolio are leasehold.
matter description Where an impairment review is required, the value in use of the store is compared to the net book value of store assets.
Where the value in use of the store is less than the net book value of assets, an impairment is recorded.
Value in use is calculated from cash flow projections and relies upon Directors assumptions and estimates of future trading performance, longer-term growth rates and discount rates.
The key audit matter relates to the appropriateness of managements estimate of future trading performance of the store which is used to derive the value in use of each store.
The total store asset value as at 28 April 2018 was 97.7m 2017: 83.0m with this total value being subject to impairment assessment.
An impairment charge of 5.0m has been recorded specifically in relation to the Berlin Kranzler store.
Refer to notes 1 and 2 for the Groups impairment accounting policies and the key assumptions used in the impairment assessment as well as the significant issues section of the Audit Committee report.
Our audit procedures included assessing the design and implementation of key controls around the impairment review process, the judgements applied by the How the scope of our Directors in determining an impairment review for certain stores was required and assessing the methodology applied by the Directors in performing the impairment audit responded to the review and calculating the impairment charge.
key audit matter To challenge the completeness of the Groups impairment review process, we have assessed the trading performance of the store portfolio over time and considered the reasonableness of the impairment review criteria identified by management.
Our audit procedures on the Groups value in use calculations included: Assessing the methodology applied in determining the value in use compared with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and checking the integrity of the impairment model utilised by the Group: Assessing the Groups historical forecasting accuracy: Challenging the key assumptions utilised in the cash flow forecasts including store sales, rental costs and payroll assumptions with reference to the historical trading performance, market expectations and our understanding of the Groups strategic initiatives: Assessing the long-term growth rates and discount rates applied to the store cash flows, comparing the rates used to third party evidence and in relation to the discount rate, our independently estimated discount rates: Completing sensitivity analysis in relation to the key assumptions used in the cash flow forecasts: and Reviewing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures regarding the store asset impairment in notes 2 and 6 of the financial statements.
A total impairment charge of 5.3m has been recognised in the period, relating to four stores.
5.0m of this charge relates to the Berlin Kranzler store and has been Key observations separately disclosed as exceptional and other in note 6.
From the work performed above we concluded that the level of impairment recognised on the store estate is appropriate.
As set out in note 2 to the financial statements, for those stores where an impairment indicator has been identified, a 1% reduction in the sales growth per annum leads to 2.1m additional impairment.
com Our Financials Appropriateness of inventory provisioning As at 28 April 2018, the Group held 165.6m 2017: 160.3m of gross inventory.
The stock provision was 3.3m 2017: 3.1m representing 2% 2017: 2% of the Key audit inventory balance.
matter description The valuation of inventory involves judgement in recording provisions for slow-moving or obsolete inventory.
The Group accounting policy is based upon the ageing of inventory by season, with a percentage provision applied which reflects the actual historical rate of losses made.
In addition, specific provisions are made for known product quality issues and product ranges which management consider unlikely to be sold via regular clearance channels.
This requires management judgement to assess the quality of products provided for and the expected realisable value.
Refer to note 1 for the Groups inventory provisioning policy, and note 23 inventory.
We obtained a detailed understanding and evaluated the design and implementation of controls that the Group has established regarding the inventory provision.
How the scope of our In order to test the adequacy of the Groups inventory provision, we: audit responded to the key audit matter considered the historical accuracy of managements provisioning for inventory through a retrospective review of the level of provision recorded in prior years compared to the actual level of stock written off to the provision held: compared the methodology applied in calculating the inventory obsolescence provision to the Groups policy and recalculated the provision, with reference to the policy: and verified the accuracy of the data used in the calculation by testing the seasonal ageing of a sample of stock items back to supplier invoice.
From the work performed above we concluded that the level of inventory provision is appropriate.
Key observations Classification and disclosure of exceptional and other items Exceptional and other items for the year ended 28 April 2018 are 25.6m charge 2017: 2.7m charge and includes the fair value movement in financial instruments, Key audit costs associated with the exit of certain distribution agreements, the IFRS 2 charge associated with the Founder Share Plan and tax charge following the change in matter description the US corporation tax rate.
Further details are contained within note 6 of the financial statements.
The appropriateness of the classification of items excluded from underlying trading performance, alongside the related alternative performance measures, is a key area of audit focus, particularly the presentation and disclosure of the Founder Share Plan which was introduced in the year.
Refer to note 1 for the Groups policy on the classification and disclosure of exceptional and other items.
We obtained a detailed understanding and evaluated the design and implementation of controls that the Group has established regarding the classification and How the scope of our disclosure of exceptional items.
audit responded to the We have challenged the appropriateness of the items classified as exceptional and other disclosed by management in note 6 to the financial statements and the key audit matter reasonableness of their exclusion from underlying trading profit by reference to their nature and quantum and the requirements of IAS 1.
Further, we have assessed whether these items are adequately disclosed and reconciled in the Alternative Performance Measure disclosures note 35.
From the work performed above, we concluded that the classification and disclosure of the exceptional and other items is appropriate.
Key observations We specifically assessed the reasonableness of the disclosure of the Founder Share Plan IFRS 2 charge as exceptional and other considering the nature of the scheme and its duration.
As set out in note 9, the scheme is one-off in nature and unusual in that the share awards are funded exclusively by the Founders.
While the charge is spread over a number of years, the plan is a one-time scheme.
Accordingly, the IFRS 2 charge in respect of the FSP is considered to be exceptional and other due to the size, nature and incidence of the scheme.
The 20.8m fair value remeasurement of foreign exchange contracts 2017: 2.2m has been classified as exceptional and other due to both the size and nature.
This is because the unrealised gains and losses on these trades are not a reflection of the underlying trading performance of the business.
When the contracts mature, the profit or loss is reflected in underlying profit before tax.
Further details are set out in note 6.
indd 101 26 07 2018 17:00:57 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Superdry Plc Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality 4.7m 2017: 4.4m 4.2m Basis for determining 5% of underlying pre-tax profit.
This is consistent with the approach taken to The basis of materiality is net assets: taking into account the Group materiality, the materiality determine materiality in the prior year.
Exceptional and other items are excluded materiality is approximately 1% of net assets.
from profit before tax for the purposes of the determination of materiality as these items are not considered to be reflective of the underlying performance of the business.
Rationale for the benchmark Underlying profit before tax was used as the benchmark for determining materiality In determining our final materiality based on our professional judgement we have applied as this is considered to be a key benchmark used by investors and is consistent considered net assets as the appropriate measure given the parent Company is with the Groups internal and external reporting.
primarily a holding company for the Group.
We then capped materiality at 90% for the Group.
Group materiality 4.7m Underlying PBT Component 97.0m materiality range 1.88m to 2.35m Audit Committee Underlying PBT reporting threshold Group materiality 0.235m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 235,000 2017: 100,000 for the Group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 7 2017: 8 components.
4 2017: 8 of these were subject to a full audit being DKH Retail Limited, C-Retail Limited, SuperGroup Internet Limited and SuperGroup Plc parent Company.
The remaining 3 components 2017: nil were Germany, Belgium and the US and were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those components.
These components represent the principal business units and account for 92% 2017: 92% of the Groups net assets, 89% 2017: 87% of the Groups revenue and 92% 2017: 88% of the Groups underlying profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 1.88m to 2.35m.
com Our Financials In the prior year, an audit of the complete financial information of DKH Retail Limited, C-Retail Limited, SuperGroup Internet Limited and SuperGroup Plc was completed as well as full scope audits on the reporting units located in Germany, Belgium, the US and Ireland.
Ireland is not in scope this year as it represents less than 2% of the Groups revenue, profit and net assets and we did not consider it necessary to include given the overall work performed on the Group.
As DKH Retail Limited, C-Retail Limited, SuperGroup Internet Limited and SuperGroup Plc represent 88% of the Groups net assets, 75% of the Groups total revenue and 83% of the Groups underlying profit before tax, we are comfortable that performing specified audit procedures on the reporting units in Germany, Belgium and the US gives sufficient coverage of the Groups operations.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
All audit work for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the Groups financial statements is performed by the Group audit team as the accounting records are held centrally, with the exception of stock counts which are performed by local country Deloitte audit teams, all of whom receive a briefing by the Group audit team prior to attending the count.
8% 8% 11% 4% 9% 14% Underlying Revenue Net assets profit before tax Full audit scope specified audit procedures 75% 83% 88% Review at group level Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
indd 103 26 07 2018 17:00:57 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Superdry Plc Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
com Our Financials Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors and subsequently at the AGM on 12 September 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 28 April 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is one year, with the year-ending 28 April 2018 being the first 52 week period we have expressed an audit opinion.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Edward Hanson Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 4 July 2018 105 26056 26 July 2018 5:00 PM Proof 2 SuperGroup Back Section.
