Financial statements I ndependent auditors report to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of TalkTalk Telecom Group plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets: the consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity: the accounting policies: and the related notes 1 to 27.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: management override of controls: disclosure of non-Headline items and the presentation of alternative performance measures in the financial statements: revenue recognition and revenue share arrangements with third parties: and capitalised time and impairment of operating intangibles.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 3.6m which was determined on the basis of considering anumber of different measures including Statutory loss before taxation, Headline profit before taxation and Statutory revenue.
This is a change from prior year when materiality was determined on the basis of Headline profit before taxation and reflects the volatility in the results of the Group as management focuses on simplifying and resetting the business.
62 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Scoping Based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement at the Group level, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the TalkTalk Consumer and TalkTalk Business operating units.
Each of these was subject to a full audit and together this covered 99% 2017: 99% of the Groups total revenues.
Together with this, our Group audit scope covered 92% of Statutory loss before taxation 2017: Statutory profit before tax 92% and 97% of net assets 2017: 93%.
Significant changes Last year our report included the recoverability of deferred tax assets and supplier rebate income as key audit inour approach matters.
We do not consider the recoverability of deferred tax assets to be a key risk in the current year as this did not have a significant effect on our audit strategy nor the allocation of resources in the audit.
We also note there was less judgement in the current year in relation to the recognition of supplier rebate income.
We have included capitalised time and impairment of operating intangibles within our audit report as a key audit matter in the current year.
Due to the nature and quantum of capitalised time being recorded year on year as well as the launch of the Network Transformation programme in 2017, we increased the level of audit focus in relation to the potential impairment of the underlying asset base and nature of items capitalised in the year.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they nothing material to report, add considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their or draw attention to in respect identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue to of these matters.
do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the nothing material to report, add knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the or draw attention to in respect Directors assessment of the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we of these matters.
are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 2226 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors' confirmation on page 38 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 38 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, overwhat period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 63 Financial statements I ndependent auditors report continued to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Management override of controls Key audit matter International Standards on Auditing require us to presume a risk of fraud arising from management override of description controls and conduct our audit testing accordingly.
Key areas of potential risk include inappropriate bias in relation to accounting judgements and inappropriate accounting for significant or unusual transactions taking place in the year.
Our audit focus in this area primarily related to the quantum and nature of items occurring during the year, including the recording of non-Headline items, revenue share arrangements with third parties, supplier rebate income, income received in relation to service level related credits, and revisions to accounting estimates and management forecasts.
The number of areas requiring the application of judgement and estimation techniques creates additional risk of bias in accounting estimates and therefore we have considered this to be a key audit matter.
Disclosures relating to the items noted above are included in notes 1 and 9 and the matters are discussed in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 40 and 41.
How the scope of our In considering the key audit matter relating to management override of controls we have: audit responded to reviewed accounting estimates individually and collectively for management bias that would result the key audit matter inmaterial misstatement, in particular focusing our attention on the areas noted above.
We obtained evidence to support the rationale behind each estimate made and quantified the impact on the financial statements.
Details of our audit response in relation to disclosure of non-Headline items and revenue recognition policies have been outlined below: obtained supporting documentation and obtained an understanding of the business rationale for significant transactions that we have become aware of that are outside the normal course of business orthat otherwise appear to be unusual given our understanding of the Group: reviewed managements forecasts supporting their goodwill and non-current asset carrying values as well as the going concern assumption including working capital trends throughout the year.
We have agreed known commitments and transactions and challenged key underlying assumptions.
We have run our own sensitivity analysis including a reasonable worst-case scenario which strips out uncommitted or unapproved items.
In considering our reasonable worst-case scenario we have also considered mitigating actions that in the event of a breach of covenant that management has within their control which would be used to ensure covenants are not breached: and completed journal entry testing, where data analytics tools were used to identify those postings that might be indicative of management override of controls.
For the journal entries that were determined to meet these characteristics, we obtained explanations and examined supporting documentation to understand the nature and rationale for each entry.
Key observations We note there continues to be significant judgements taken by management in reaching both Statutory and Headline results in relation to income received regarding service level related credits recognised, supplier settlements, true up of estimates in relation to revenue share arrangements with third parties and accounting estimates revisited in light of current data within the business.
We concur with the judgemental items included within Headline results and are satisfied that these have been disclosed in the financial statements.
64 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Disclosure of non-Headline items and the presentation of alternative performance measures in the financial statements Key audit matter The Group presents alternative performance measures to provide supplemental information to enable users description of the financial statements to gain an understanding of the Groups financial performance.
During the year, the Group has incurred items classified as non-Headline items amounting to 119m prior to the impact on taxation 2017: 129m.
The disclosure of non-Headline items and their presentation on the face ofthe income statement remain a key audit matter given the level of management judgement involved as inappropriate classification of such items would impact on the disclosure of Headline earnings, which is a key performance indicator used by the Group.
The impact of the classification of items as non-Headline has been to move theGroup results from a Statutory loss before taxation of 73m to a Headline profit before taxation of 46m.
Over the last two years, the Group has come to the end of a number of significant projects such as MakingTalkTalk Simpler and has started a number of projects such as Network Transformation and Business Reorganisation as well as disclosing the impact of the loss on exiting the MVNO operations as a key non-Headline item in the year.
These are multi-phase projects spanning a number of years and consequently, we consider there is significant management judgement in determining whether those costs or projects are non-Headline based on the Groups policy or are, in substance, business as usual and therefore should be recognised in arriving at Headline earnings.
Management has also revised their policy in the year resulting in an increase in prior year Headline profit before taxation by 66m.
Please see note 1 for further detail of the accounting policy change in the year.
The nature of these costs has been defined in note 9 to the accounts and the related accounting policy has been disclosed in note 1.
The Audit Committees discussion of this matter is set out on page 40.
How the scope of our In addition to understanding the composition of non-Headline items and agreeing a sample of items to audit responded to supporting documentation, we challenged managements rationale for the presentation of items within the the key audit matter consolidated income statement as non-Headline, particularly around the areas of higher judgement such as migration costs, internal labour, and costs in relation to the launch of Network Transformation to determine whether the costs recognised as non-Headline meet the criteria of the accounting policy for such items defined by the Group within note 1.
This includes assessing the incremental nature of the costs, whether they are specific to individual projects including the MVNO operations of the Group and considering whether they should be classified as part of Headline operations.
Our work has also included a review, on a sample basis, of items included within the income statement toidentify income and expenses which may be non-Headline by nature but not separately identified.
Thisincluded consideration of credit balances within underlying results, including those in relation to servicelevel related disputes.
Key observations We concur with the treatment of non-Headline items in the year that have been recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 65 Financial statements I ndependent auditors report continued to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Revenue recognition and revenue share arrangement with third parties Key audit matter Revenue represents a significant balance of 1,708 million 2017: 1,783 million, consisting of a high volume of description individually low value transactions across the business to business and consumer customer base.
We have identified the following types of transactions and assertions related to revenue recognition which give rise to a key audit matter relating to risks arising from the complexity of telecom transaction processing within the Group as well as the level of management judgement: the completeness of revenue recorded through billing systems: the accuracy and completeness of revenue recognised on transactions which are outside the normal billing process, which by their nature carry a higher level of management judgement such as accrued revenue adjustments: and the appropriateness of the accounting in relation to revenue share arrangements with third parties and how the revenues and costs related to the transactions are disclosed within the financial statements.
See note 1 to the financial statements for revenue recognition policy that has been applied by the Group and the Audit Committee Report on page 40.
How the scope of our We involved our IT specialists to test the operating effectiveness of automated and non-automated controls audit responded to over the customer billing systems.
Our tests assessed the controls in place to ensure services supplied to the key audit matter customers are input into and processed through the billing systems.
This enabled us to take a controls reliance approach over billing systems processing over 95% of revenue transactions by value.
We subsequently applied a combination of review procedures and sample testing to obtain evidence over the accuracy and completeness of the reported output of these systems.
We performed testing on a sample of non-systematic adjustments which are outside of the normal billing process and therefore carry higher levels of management judgement.
These included revenue deferrals and the write-back to the income statement of credits applied to customer accounts.
Our work included agreeing a sample of items to supporting evidence to determine whether they had been recognised in line with Group policies as well as analytical reviews to understand the movements year on year.
We assessed the appropriateness of the revenue recognition policy adopted with reference to revenue share arrangements with third parties in place and also performed substantive testing to assess whether the elements delivered have been recognised in line with Group policy.
Key observations We note that the policies applied in relation to revenue recognition are in line with our expectations aside from the policy relating to the recognition of hardware sales where the quantum recognised in the year is insignificant in the context of the wider Group revenue balance.
In our testing on IT systems, we have identified certain control deficiencies.
We confirmed that the mitigating business controls identified address the risk of a material misstatement to the financial statements.
Capitalised time and impairment of operating intangibles Key audit matter The Group has significant network assets held on the balance sheet of 493m 2017: 447m which is description predominantly made up of 241m 2017: 219m of operating intangibles and 228m 2017: 228m of network equipment and computer hardware.
This includes 30m of internally capitalised time recorded in2018.
Internal capitalised time relating to the development of network infrastructure and system enhancements remains a significant balance year on year accordingly: there is a risk that inappropriate classification of operating expenses would impact on the disclosure of Headline earnings, which is a key performance indicator used by the Group and hence this has been determined as a key audit matter.
With the launch of the Network Transformation programme, there is a risk assets and work capitalised including external resource, licensing and software supersede existing network infrastructure, resulting in the carrying value of assets exceeding the recoverable value and triggering impairments across the existing asset base.
See note 1 to the financial statements for the impairment and asset related accounting policies that have been applied by the Group and the Audit Committee Report on page 41.
66 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 How the scope of our We challenged managements impairment review of the asset base as at 31 March 2018, focusing on those audit responded to areas under the Network Transformation programme via assessing the recoverable value of assets held the key audit matter against the carrying value on the balance sheet.
We assessed managements review by involving specialists toassess the discount rate used via independently calculating an acceptable range with reference to market data, challenging the identification of CGUs and performing relevant sensitivity analyses in line with our forecasting work outlined above.
We reviewed each capital programme in progress across the year against the requirements of IAS 38 Intangible Assets IAS 38.
We also performed substantive testing procedures on a sample of time capitalised in the year via corresponding with project managers and agreeing time spent to the newly implemented core timesheet system as well as gaining an understanding of the work carried out in the yearand whether directly attributable to each capital programme.
Key observations We are satisfied with the carrying value of the operating intangibles held on the balance sheet as at 31 March 2018 and that the nature of capital additions in the year is in line with the requirements of IAS 38.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality 3.6m 2017: 4.0m 3.4m 2017: 3.0m Basis for determining Materiality has been determined by considering a The Parent Company materiality represents 0.3% of materiality number of different measures including Statutory net assets 2017: 0.3% which is capped at 95% of loss before taxation, Headline profit before taxation Group materiality.
and Statutory revenue 2017: 3% of Headline profit before taxation.
Rationale for the There is significant volatility in the results of the We consider the net assets to be an appropriate benchmarkapplied Group due to the change in the Mobile strategy benchmark for the measure of the materiality of the andthe launch of programmes such as Network Parent Company on the basis that it is the Groups Transformation and Business Reorganisation.
ultimate parent and is a non-trading company.
Assuch, we have considered a range of metrics when determining our materiality.
The materiality applied equates to 5% of Statutory loss before taxation, 7.8% of Headline profit before taxation and 0.2% of Statutory revenue.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 180,000 2017: 200,000 for the Group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 67 Financial statements I ndependent auditors report continued to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment and consistent with the prior year, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the TalkTalk Consumer and TalkTalk Business operating units.
Each of these was subject to a full audit which was performed directly by the Group audit team and together they represent over 99% 2017: over 99% of the Groups total revenues.
Specific focused audit work was performed over Group functions, including those covering treasury and taxation.
Together this covered 92% of Statutory loss before taxation 2017: Statutory profit before tax 92% and 97% of net assets 2017: 93%.
Our audit work at each division was executed at levels of materiality which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 2.5m to 3.1m 2017: 2.4m to 3.2m.
3% 1% 8% Statutory Statutory Full audit scope loss before loss before Revenue Net assets Review at Group level taxation taxation 99% 92% 97% Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to report included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary toenable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue asa going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
68 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: ofthese matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records andreturns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures ofthese matters.
of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report tobe audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Kate J Houldsworth FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 24 May 2018 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 69
