Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Tate & Lyle PLCs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as at 31 March 2018: the Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2018, the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Consolidated and Parent Company financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
Our audit approach Context The context of our audit was set by the Groups major activities in the year ended 31 March 2018 FY18.
FY18 involved few significant business changes, although as a result of the Food Systems business being fully integrated into Food & Beverage Solutions, the business revised its allocation of goodwill to the CGUs.
The goodwill associated with Biovelop, the Groups oat business in Sweden, continues to be sensitive to reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
As such we have retained goodwill and intangible asset impairment as a key audit matter.
Our other key audit matters have been further refined to reflect certain developments in the Group during FY18.. 92 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 92 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 14.7 million 2017 12 million, based on 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations adding back the Groups share of tax of joint ventures and associates and exceptional items, which is our defined profit measure.
Overall Parent Company materiality: 3.4 million 2017 1.6 million, based on 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations excluding dividends received.
Audit scope Our audit included full-scope audits of six reporting components Tate & Lyle PLC, Tate & Lyle International Finance, the Primary Products business in the US, the Food & Beverage Solutions Materiality business in the US, the US Sucralose business, and G. C. Hahn Limited, a Company in Wales with specified audit procedures performed at a further five reporting components Tate & Lyle Services Slovakia, Tate & Lyle Insurance Gibraltar, the Brazil Primary Products business, the Brazil Food & Beverage Solutions business and the US Tax Group.
We also performed testing at the Global Shared Services Centre GSS in Poland in support of these component audits.
Audit scope Taken together, the components at which audit work was performed accounted for 84% of consolidated sales and 63% of our profit measure as defined above.
This percentage is calculated on an absolute basis, which aggregates component profits and losses, ignoring sign convention.
Adjusting further to remove group recharges our work accounted for 81% of our profit measure.
Our audit covered all components that individually contributed more than 10% of consolidated sales and our profit measure as defined above.
Areas of The Group engagement team performed the audit of the standalone Parent Company financial focus statements, for which work was performed by the Group engagement team as well as at the GSS in Poland.
Areas of focus Commodity risk Group.
Complex tax accounting and uncertain tax positions Group.
Retirement benefit obligations and assets Group.
Goodwill and intangible asset impairment Group.
1 2 Consolidat ed sales profit profit 1 Reporting 1 Reporting 1 Reporting components: 84% components: 63% components: 81% 2 Other 2 Other 2 Other components: 16% components: 37% components: 19% 1 As dened above.
2 profit, as dened above, further adjusted for recharges.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Parent Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, discussions with in-house legal counsel and inspection of underlying support and calculations where applicable.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
com 93 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Commodity risk Group We understood and evaluated managements process for managing the commodity price risk inherent within its commodity Refer to Notes 2, 28 and 29 in the Group financial statements.
positions and compared it with managements underlying risk The Groups accounting policy is to mark-to-market at each balance management and accounting policies.
No matters were identified sheet date its commodity positions, including its forward sales and that would indicate that the risk management and accounting purchase contracts with customers and grain suppliers.
In addition, policies were not being followed.
certain commodity raw material inventories are measured at net We obtained managements forward pricing sheet for commodities realisable value.
The Group manages the commodity price risk on used in its mark-to-market calculations.
For those commodities sales and purchase contracts by taking long and short positions and with an actively traded market, we assessed the consistency of the through the use of derivative financial instruments, primarily futures forward prices with those published by the Chicago Mercantile and options contracts.
For those commodities where an active futures market This was a key audit matter due to the complexity of the calculations does not exist principally co-products and for the basis and the judgement involved in the valuation of certain commodities adjustments made, we understood and challenged managements positions, most notably co-products that do not have an actively methodology for determining the valuations, including the inputs traded futures market.
These co-products include corn gluten feed, and assumptions used.
To further assess the reasonableness of corn gluten meal and corn oil.
Additionally, basis adjustments are the forward prices estimated by management, we performed trend made to certain commodity valuations to reflect market conditions, analyses against similar market or exchange traded commodities which necessitate further management judgement.
and compared certain ratios of co-product prices against The fair values of commodities pricing contracts as at 31 March historical ratios.
2018 were assets of 22 million and liabilities of 11 million.
In addition to testing the forward price estimates, we audited the calculations of the fair value and associated unrealised gains and losses on the commodity based positions.
We found that managements forward price estimates and the calculations of fair value of positions were reasonable and supported by market observable data, where appropriate.
Where management had calculated values by reference to nonmarket observable data, we found that these were within acceptable ranges.
For derivative financial instruments, which were used to manage the commodity price risk, we independently confirmed these positions with the counterparty and recalculated the fair value of the positions held.
We found that the fair values of these derivative financial instruments were supported by the confirmations and recalculations.
94 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 94 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Complex tax accounting and uncertain tax positions Group In conjunction with our UK, US, and international tax and transfer pricing specialists, we evaluated and challenged managements Refer to Notes 2 and 12 in the Group financial statements.
judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and The nature of the Groups multinational and cross-border contingencies, in order to assess the adequacy of the Groups tax operations exposes it to complicated tax regulations.
This included obtaining a detailed understanding of the management to exercise judgement in determining the appropriate Groups key technical tax matters and the related risks, including amount of tax to provide in respect of tax obligations in a number of business and legislative developments.
In addition, certain financing arrangements that the We recalculated managements valuation of its tax provisions and Group has entered into, while not uncommon or unduly aggressive, determined whether the calculations were in line with the Groups have been previously subject to enquiry by tax authorities.
Changes methodology and principles, and whether they had been applied on in managements estimates of the likely result of enquiries by tax a basis consistent with previous years.
We also examined authorities could materially affect the quantum of tax provisions managements analysis of its financing arrangements and recognised in the Group financial statements.
At 31 March 2018 the considered recent correspondence with the tax authorities and Group had centrally held provisions for uncertain tax positions of third party tax advisors.
From the evidence obtained, we concluded 30 million 2017 34 million.
There have also been changes in that the level of provisioning was acceptable.
tax law in the US that have impacted the Groups current and deferred tax balances at 31 March 2018.
The most significant Additionally, we assessed the appropriateness of judgements and impact has been in respect of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act US estimates, as they pertain to taxation matters and concluded they Tax Reform which was substantively enacted before the year-end.
Some of the changes are complex and there are a number of areas We have assessed managements treatment of changes arising of uncertainty relating both to the manner in which the law will from US Tax Reform with help from our UK and US tax specialists apply and to the accounting in certain areas.
and consider the judgements made, including the classification of the impact of the changes as exceptional, to be appropriate.
Retirement benefit obligations and assets Group We understood and evaluated the assumptions used by the Groups actuaries and management in calculating the retirement benefit Refer to Notes 2 and 30 in the Group financial statements.
obligations for the defined benefit pension plans in the UK and the The Group has significant retirement benefit obligations in the UK US and the unfunded retirement medical scheme in the US.
and the US, including unfunded retirement medical plans in the US.
In conjunction with our pension specialists, we challenged the At 31 March 2018 the present value of these obligations was actuarial assumptions by comparing these against benchmark 1,612 million 2017 1,769 million offset by plan assets at ranges based on the market conditions and expectations at fair value of 1,630 million 2017 1,630 million in respect of 31 March 2018.
Based on our review of the assumptions, in each funded schemes.
case we found that the actuarial assumptions used were reasonable These retirement benefit obligations were determined based on a and sat within our acceptable range and, where appropriate, were number of actuarial assumptions and calculations, which were subject applied on a basis consistent with previous years.
to significant judgement and estimate.
Changes in these assumptions In addition, we independently confirmed the pension assets held by can have a material impact on the quantum of obligations recorded in the UK and US schemes with the third-party custodians and fund the consolidated statement of financial position.
We also performed an independent assessment of the During FY18 an additional lump sum payment of 56 million was asset valuations and concluded that they were appropriate.
made to reduce the deficit in the US pension scheme.
We considered it appropriate to classify the additional lump sum payment as exceptional as it is non-recurring and material.
com 95 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill and intangible asset impairment Group We obtained the Groups annual impairment analyses and tested the reasonableness of key assumptions, including profit and cash Refer to Notes 2 and 19 in the Group financial statements.
flow growth or decline, terminal values and the selection of At 31 March 2018 the Group had a net balance of 204 million of discount rates.
goodwill 2017 212 million spread across multiple geographies We performed our own independent sensitivity calculations to and relating to multiple cash generating units CGUs.
In addition, quantify downside changes to managements models required to the Group had 156 million of intangible assets 2017 189 million result in impairment.
comprising patents and other intellectual property, capitalised development expenses and other acquired intangible assets.
With the exception of Biovelop, there is no reasonably possible change in one or more of the key assumptions used in the The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are contingent impairment tests for goodwill and other intangible assets that on future cash flows and there is a risk that the assets will be would give rise to an impairment loss during the coming year.
impaired if these cash flows do not meet the Groups expectations.
Our work surrounding the assessment of Biovelop involved The impairment reviews performed by the Group contained a analysing the validity of the key assumption for the valorisation number of judgements and estimates including revenue growth, of its co-products.
Incorporating this into the model, it remains the success of market and capacity expansion, profit margin, cash highly sensitive to a reasonably possible change in assumptions, conversion, terminal values and discount rates.
Changes in these and as such, a disclosure has been made within the Groups assumptions could lead to an impairment to the carrying value of financial statements Note 19, together with a sensitivity intangible assets and goodwill.
During the year, the Group had reanalysis performed.
evaluated the allocation of Goodwill to the CGUs and reduced the number of CGUs triggered by the Group reorganisation whereby the Food Systems business has been fully integrated into the Food & Beverage Solutions segment.
Investments in subsidiaries Parent We obtained the details of the Parent Companys investments in subsidiaries on the balance sheet and compared them to the Refer to Notes 1 and 4 in the Parent Company financial statements.
Parent Companys share of the subsidiaries net assets.
As a result The Parent Company holds direct investments in Group of our work, which leveraged the procedures performed over the subsidiaries.
This is the entity's principal activity and therefore goodwill and intangible asset impairment models described above, a key audit matter.
At 31 March 2018, the Parent Company had we determined that the impairment charges and reversals recognised investments in subsidiary undertakings of 1,037 million during the year were appropriate and that the carrying values of the 2017 1,028 million.
assets recognised on the balance sheet were supportable.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is structured across three reportable segments: Food & Beverage Solutions, Sucralose and Primary Products, with a central support function.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of the Groups reporting units, spread across the three reportable segments, which comprise the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions covering more than 250 individual components.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instructions.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those components, in order to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained, as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
This involvement included oversight visits and review of working papers at the GSS in Poland, and the Groups two financially significant components in the US the US Primary Products business and the US Food & Beverage Solutions business.
We also attended the clearance meetings for these components.
In addition, we met with management in Brazil, Sweden and the UK, and the non-PwC firm audit team for the Groups joint venture in Mexico, and reviewed the audit work they performed.
The Parent Company operates as a single entity.
Work on the audit was performed by both the Group audit team and our component team at the GSS in Poland.
All work was overseen by the Group audit team.
Members of the Group audit team conducted a site visit to the GSS in Poland to discuss the work performed by those auditors.
96 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 96 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Overall materiality 14.7 million 2017 12.0 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations 5% of result before tax adding back the receipt of 286 million adding back the Groups share of tax of intercompany dividends.
joint ventures and associates 12 million and exceptional items 2 million.
Rationale for The Groups principal measure of earnings is adjusted The Companys principal measure of earnings is benchmark applied profit before tax from continuing operations, which profit before tax.
excludes exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and net retirement benefit interest from profit before tax.
The Group adjusts for exceptional items as it believes that doing so is necessary to provide an understanding of financial performance.
We have not used adjusted profit before tax, as defined above, as our benchmark since the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and net retirement benefit interest are recurring items.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1 million and 11 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 750,000 Group audit 2017 500,000 and 340,000 Parent Company audit 2017 160,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
financial statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
com 97 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tate & Lyle PLC continued Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 39 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 39 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 91, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 68 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 98 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 98 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 24 January 1990 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 29 September 1990 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 28 years, covering the years ended 29 September 1990 to 31 March 2018.
John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 May 2018 www.
