124 124 Independent auditors report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Scoping Based on our scoping assessment, our Group audit was focused on the UK Housing division excluding joint ventures Opinion which represented the principal segment within the Group In our opinion: and accounted for 98% of the Groups net operating assets 97% of the Groups revenue and 97% of the Groups pre-tax the financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc the Parent Company profit before exceptional items.
and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December Significant In relation to the key audit matters, we have added the 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: changes accounting for the cladding provision due to the judgement in our required in estimating the liability.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in approach There have been no significant changes in our approach accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as to scoping the audit and in determining materiality.
adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in viability statement accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Going concern the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the We have reviewed the Directors statement in Note 1 to the financial requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to We have audited the financial statements which comprise: continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of the Consolidated Income Statement: approval of the financial statements.
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Company, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging Notes 1 to 33 relating to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, Notes 1 to 15 relating to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including obtained in the audit.
FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention Accepted Accounting Practice.
to in respect of these matters.
Basis for opinion Principal risks and viability statement We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial to add or draw attention to in relation to: statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed entities, and we have fulfilled our other the disclosures on pages 44 to 51 that describe the principal risks and ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not the Directors' confirmation on page 44 that they have carried out a provided to the Group or Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or Summary of our audit approach the Directors explanation on page 51 as to how they have assessed the Key audit The key audit matters that we identified in the current prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why matters year were: they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to inventory costing and margin recognition: whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able defined benefit pension scheme accounting: to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the accounting for the leasehold provision: and period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing accounting for the cladding provision.
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially the prior year are identified with.
inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group Financial Statements We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention was 42.0 million which was determined on the basis of 5% to in respect of these matters.
of pre-tax profit for the year, excluding exceptional items.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 124 125 125 Independent auditors report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Scoping Based on our scoping assessment, our Group audit was Key audit matters focused on the UK Housing division excluding joint ventures Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements in the period and Opinion which represented the principal segment within the Group include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which In our opinion: and accounted for 98% of the Groups net operating assets had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
97% of the Groups revenue and 97% of the Groups pre-tax the financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc the Parent Company These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not profit before exceptional items.
and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of provide a separate opinion on these matters.
the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December Significant In relation to the key audit matters, we have added the 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: changes accounting for the cladding provision due to the judgement For each key audit matter we perform procedures to assess the design and implementation of key controls in mitigating the risk that the associated in our required in estimating the liability.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in approach There have been no significant changes in our approach accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Inventory costing and margin recognition to scoping the audit and in determining materiality.
adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Refer to page 86 Audit Committee report, page 139 source of estimation uncertainty and page 149 financial statements disclosures.
Accounting Standards Board IASB : The value for inventory as at 31 December 2018 is 4,188.2 million 2017: 4,075.7 million and as such is the most significant asset on the Key audit Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in matter balance sheet page 132.
Inventory comprises land and work in progress WIP : WIP includes the construction cost of developing a site, viability statement accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting description and is transferred to cost of sales as each legal completion takes place.
Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and The Groups cost allocation framework determines the profit forecasted for each site, and acts as a method of allocating land and build cost Going concern of a development to each individual plot, ensuring the forecast gross margin in % terms to be achieved on each individual plot is equal across the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the We have reviewed the Directors statement in Note 1 to the financial the development.
This cost allocation framework drives the recognition of costs as each plot is sold.
We consider the appropriate margin requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the recognition across the life of the site to be a key audit matter.
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to There is significant judgement and a risk of potential fraud in the following areas: We have audited the financial statements which comprise: continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of estimating the selling price and build costs included within the initial site budget.
This is due to the inherent judgement relating to forecasting the Consolidated Income Statement: approval of the financial statements.
external factors such as future selling prices and build cost inflation.
The level of uncertainty associated with these macro-economic factors the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Company, has increased in the current period due to the uncertainty in relation to the United Kingdoms exit from the European Union: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of appropriately allocating costs such as shared infrastructure costs relating to a development so that the gross profit margin Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: in % terms budgeted on each individual plot is equal: and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: and recording the variation when a deviation from the initial budget occurs and ensuring such variations are appropriately spread across the the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging remainder of the development.
Notes 1 to 33 relating to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, Notes 1 to 15 relating to the Parent Company Financial Statements.
These judgements impact the carrying value of inventory in the balance sheet and therefore the profit recognised on each plot sold.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation We visited a number of the Groups business units as described on page 128.
As part of these visits we assessed the design and How the of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted scope of implementation, and tested the operating effectiveness of controls in relation to: We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been our audit attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 the preparation and approval of site budgets: applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements responded and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge the process of monitoring site budgets: and is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including to the key obtained in the audit.
audit matter FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally the regular review meetings where Management reviews actual costs against detailed site budgets.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention Accepted Accounting Practice.
We have also performed substantive testing as noted below: to in respect of these matters.
Basis for opinion For all UK business units we enquired with local Management as to the primary judgements associated with the cost allocation.
Upon reviewing Principal risks and viability statement this correspondence we performed additional substantive procedures targeted to certain developments.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether For a sample of sites we have analysed completions in the period and compared the achieved margin to the initial margin determined when the those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the original site budget was approved.
Where differences fell outside of an acceptable threshold, we performed corroborative inquiries with the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors Management and obtained evidence supporting the variance.
assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance For a further sample of sites tested, we have reviewed the total excesses and savings balance identified for each given site, and through going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial recalculation of the expected income statement impact based on the number of legal completions in the year, we have determined that the to add or draw attention to in relation to: statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs excesses and savings have been appropriately allocated and recognised.
Ethical Standard as applied to listed entities, and we have fulfilled our other the disclosures on pages 44 to 51 that describe the principal risks and Through the use of IT interrogation techniques, we have analysed journal postings being made to the inventory balances to highlight any items ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that explain how they are being managed or mitigated: which potentially should have been recorded as an expense.
Additionally, we have tested WIP additions to the inventory balance to determine the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not the Directors' confirmation on page 44 that they have carried out a whether the costs have been appropriately capitalised, by tracing these through to supporting invoices.
provided to the Group or Parent Company.
We have analysed cost per square foot of plots sold at a regional business unit level for the current year and compared this to cost per square those that would threaten its business model, future performance, foot in previous years, to analyse for any unusual trends which required corroboration from Management.
solvency or liquidity: or Summary of our audit approach We performed a review of sites where the initial site budget was created a number of years ago, which may indicate the use of an outdated the Directors explanation on page 51 as to how they have assessed the Key audit The key audit matters that we identified in the current budget.
Given the age of these sites, we challenged Management where savings from the budget had been made or additional costs have not prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why matters year were: been recognised.
they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to inventory costing and margin recognition: whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able We engaged with internal specialists who are quantity surveyors to assess the costs to complete included within a sample of models and defined benefit pension scheme accounting: to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the whether, based on this specialists opinion, the assumptions used by Management are reasonable.
This included reviewing forward looking accounting for the leasehold provision: and period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing assumptions in relation to costs and potential changes in macro-economic factors.
accounting for the cladding provision.
Based on the procedures performed, we concluded that the Groups cost allocation framework appears reasonable for the intended purpose of Key Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to observations recognising appropriate margins on plot completion.
with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
The accounting for cost allocation, both at the inception of a site and on an ongoing basis is in line with this framework.
126 126 Independent auditors report continued Defined benefit pension scheme accounting Refer to page 86 Audit Committee report, page 139 key source of estimation uncertainty and page 154 financial statements disclosures.
Key audit The total value of the defined benefit pension scheme at the balance sheet date is a net deficit of 133.0 million 2017: 63.7 million.
matter The liabilities including the adjustment for IFRIC 14 and assets are valued at 2,237.2 million 2017: 2,327.2 million and 2,104.2 million description 2017: 2,263.5 million respectively.
Accounting for a defined benefit pension scheme and the value of liabilities is dependent on significant assumptions, including an assessment of the discount rate, price inflation and key demographic figures including life expectancy and mortality rates.
A change in any of these assumptions could cause a material change in the value of the liabilities overall and the net pension deficit on the Groups balance sheet.
As explained in Note 6 page 142, in the year the Group recorded a 16.1 million exceptional charge in relation to Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP equalisation payments and there is judgement in estimating the total value of these future payments.
The Group is obligated to pay contributions into the pension scheme to reduce the size of the total net deficit.
Certain contributions are associated with the funding status of the scheme as detailed on page 155.
There is judgement in assessing the nature and quantum of future contributions that the Group is obligated to pay.
These judgements directly impact the size of the future funding contributions and the size of the IFRIC 14 adjustment which directly influences the size of the total net deficit.
These accounting judgements are inherently complex, require a high level of Management judgement and specialist actuarial input.
We assessed the competence and objectivity of the qualified actuary engaged by the Group to value the schemes defined benefits pension How the scope of position under IAS 19 Employee benefits.
our audit We engaged our internal actuarial specialists to assess the appropriateness of the assumptions used to account for the defined benefit scheme.
responded This included comparison of key data with market benchmarks and to challenge the methodology used by the scheme actuary.
We considered to the key whether each of the key assumptions was reasonable in isolation and collectively in determining the pension liability at the balance sheet date.
audit matter Furthermore, we have performed a sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions determined by the Directors.
Our internal actuarial specialists have also reviewed the methodology used to calculate the required GMP payment.
We reviewed the pension scheme documentation to determine the size and nature of the future funding contributions.
This included reviewing the judgements made by Managements actuaries in determining the future funding status of the scheme.
We performed procedures to assess the adjustment made in respect of future funding obligations taking this into account.
In doing so we reviewed the schedule of payments the group is obligated to provide and checked whether the calculation was arithmetically correct.
Based on the procedures performed, we concluded that the methodology and assumptions used in valuing the pension scheme liabilities are Key considered to be within an acceptable range.
observations We concluded that the quantum of the GMP adjustment and the methodology used to calculate it are reasonable.
We concurred with the IFRIC 14 adjustment recorded and that this included the relevant funding commitments the Group had based on the schedule of payments agreed as part of the latest triennial valuation.
We concurred with the inclusion of Accounting for Employee Benefits as a key source of estimation uncertainty in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting for the leasehold provision Refer to page 86 Audit Committee report, page 139 source of estimation uncertainty and pages 142 and 159 financial statements disclosures.
The provision the Group has made in relation to remediating certain historical lease structures at 31 December 2018 stands at 102.1 million Key audit 2017: 127.6 million, the reduction relating to costs incurred and payments made over the twelve month period.
matter description Accounting for these provisions is complex and involves Management making a number of forward-looking estimates.
The key judgements related to this key audit matter lie in estimating the final settlements with the stakeholders impacted by the historical lease structures.
This provision has multiple components that relate to payments to a number of parties including freeholders and individual customers.
Within the provision are additional costs relating to the implementation of the measures that have been identified.
There are a number of risks associated with this provision: costs could be provided that the Group is not yet committed to incur, or obligated to pay, thereby inflating the provision: and for costs that are provided there is a risk that these are inaccurately estimated or valued.
In addressing this risk, we have obtained Managements estimation of the total costs.
For each component of the provision we have performed How the procedures to assess, based on current facts and circumstances, whether the estimates made by Management are accurate.
scope of our audit We have held discussions with legal counsel to ascertain whether Managements model reflects the progress of negotiations that have been responded held with freeholders.
to the key audit matter The largest component of this calculation are the payments to be made to freeholders in order to alter the terms of the leases.
In order to verify these amounts we have confirmed the status of negotiations with freeholders and, where these negotiations had been completed, obtained the agreements and recalculated the specific amounts that have been provided for.
Where these negotiations had not been completed we assessed the value that was provided for these freeholder payments.
Key Based on the procedures performed, we considered the provision calculated by Management to be prudent.
However, our estimate of any observations potential overstatement in the provision was below materiality and, if adjusted would not have increased the post-tax profit of the Group by a material amount as at 31 December 2018.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 126 127 127 Independent auditors report continued Defined benefit pension scheme accounting Accounting for the cladding provision Refer to page 86 Audit Committee report, page 139 key source of estimation uncertainty and page 154 financial statements disclosures.
Refer to page 86 Audit Committee report, page 139 source of estimation uncertainty and pages 142 and 159 financial statements disclosures.
Key audit As described in Note 6, following the tragic events at Grenfell Tower in 2017, the Group undertook a review of its legacy developments to matter The liabilities including the adjustment for IFRIC 14 and assets are valued at 2,237.2 million 2017: 2,327.2 million and 2,104.2 million matter identify those that have been constructed with aluminium composite materials ACM.
Where ACM was identified the Group received advice description description 2017: 2,263.5 million respectively.
from external experts and, where required, created a provision for any constructive obligations that the Group had to remediate the building.
Accounting for a defined benefit pension scheme and the value of liabilities is dependent on significant assumptions, including an assessment Upon completion of this review the Group made a provision for 30.0 million and, as at 31 December 2018, the provision stands at 29.6 million of the discount rate, price inflation and key demographic figures including life expectancy and mortality rates.
A change in any of these as initial costs were incurred in beginning the remediation works.
assumptions could cause a material change in the value of the liabilities overall and the net pension deficit on the Groups balance sheet.
Accounting for these provisions is complex and involves Management making a number of forward-looking estimates.
The key judgements As explained in Note 6 page 142, in the year the Group recorded a 16.1 million exceptional charge in relation to Guaranteed Minimum related to this key audit matter lie in determining which buildings the Group has an obligation to remediate, the cost of the future works at the Pension GMP equalisation payments and there is judgement in estimating the total value of these future payments.
various buildings and that the disclosure made within the financial statements is representative of the current facts and circumstances.
Certain contributions are There are a number of risks associated with this provision: associated with the funding status of the scheme as detailed on page 155.
There is judgement in assessing the nature and quantum of future that buildings are captured in the provision that the Group is not obligated to remediate: contributions that the Group is obligated to pay.
for costs that are provided there is a risk that these are inaccurately estimated or valued: and These accounting judgements are inherently complex, require a high level of Management judgement and specialist actuarial input.
there is a risk that the disclosure made within the financial statements does not appropriately explain the obligations that the Group has in relation to remediation.
We assessed the competence and objectivity of the qualified actuary engaged by the Group to value the schemes defined benefits pension How the How the In addressing this risk we have considered and assessed the process by which Management had determined which buildings the Group had an scope of position under IAS 19 Employee benefits.
scope of obligation to remediate as at 31 December 2018.
This included verifying the identification exercise that Management performed and reviewing our audit We engaged our internal actuarial specialists to assess the appropriateness of the assumptions used to account for the defined benefit scheme.
our audit responded correspondence the Group had with relevant stakeholders.
This included comparison of key data with market benchmarks and to challenge the methodology used by the scheme actuary.
We considered responded to the key Where Management did have an obligation we assessed how the value of the provision had been determined for each development.
whether each of the key assumptions was reasonable in isolation and collectively in determining the pension liability at the balance sheet date.
to the key audit matter This included obtaining and verifying the quotes the Group had received for the remediation works.
Furthermore, we have performed a sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions determined by the Directors.
audit matter We have reviewed the disclosure made in Note 6 and considered whether this reflects the current facts and circumstances associated with the Our internal actuarial specialists have also reviewed the methodology used to calculate the required GMP payment.
replacement of the ACM cladding on identified properties.
In doing so we reviewed the schedule of payments the Based on the procedures performed, we considered the provision recorded by Management to reflect the properties for which the Group has Key group is obligated to provide and checked whether the calculation was arithmetically correct.
observations an obligation to remediate at the balance sheet date and that the amount provided is appropriate.
Based on the procedures performed, we concluded that the methodology and assumptions used in valuing the pension scheme liabilities are We considered the disclosure made in Note 6 to be complete and representative of the current facts and circumstances.
Key considered to be within an acceptable range.
We concurred with the IFRIC 14 adjustment recorded and that this included the relevant funding commitments the Group had based on the We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality to reduce Our application of materiality schedule of payments agreed as part of the latest triennial valuation.
the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and undetected We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial We concurred with the inclusion of Accounting for Employee Benefits as a key source of estimation uncertainty in Note 2 to the consolidated misstatements exceed the materiality for the financial statements as a statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a financial statements.
Group performance materiality was set at 70% of Group materiality reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
In determining performance materiality, We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and we considered factors including: in evaluating the results of our work.
Accounting for the leasehold provision our risk assessment, including our assessment of the groups overall Refer to page 86 Audit Committee report, page 139 source of estimation uncertainty and pages 142 and 159 financial statements disclosures.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for control environment and that we consider it appropriate to rely on the financial statements as a whole as follows: The provision the Group has made in relation to remediating certain historical lease structures at 31 December 2018 stands at 102.1 million Key audit controls over a number of business processes: and 2017: 127.6 million, the reduction relating to costs incurred and payments made over the twelve month period.
matter Group materiality 42.0 million 2017: 40.0 million our past experience of the audit, which has indicated a low number of description Basis for Approximately 5% 2017: 5% of pre-tax profit for corrected and uncorrected misstatements identified in prior periods.
The key judgements determining the year, excluding exceptional items, of 856.8 related to this key audit matter lie in estimating the final settlements with the stakeholders impacted by the historical lease structures.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the materiality million 2017: 812.0 million as described on page Committee all audit differences in excess of 2.0 million 2017: 1.5 million This provision has multiple components that relate to payments to a number of parties including freeholders and individual customers.
The increase in materiality is directly attributable for the Group and 2.0 million 2017: 1.5 million for the Parent Company, Within the provision are additional costs relating to the implementation of the measures that have been identified.
to the increase in pre-tax profit for the Group.
as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted There are a number of risks associated with this provision: Rationale for Pre-tax profit, excluding exceptional items, has been reporting on qualitative grounds.
This increase in threshold is the result of the benchmark chosen for the basis for materiality as this is the costs could be provided that the Group is not yet committed to incur, or obligated to pay, thereby inflating the provision: and an increase in the Groups pre-tax profit during the year.
We also report to applied measure by which stakeholders and the market the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when for costs that are provided there is a risk that these are inaccurately estimated or valued.
assess the wider performance of the entity.
assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
For each component of the provision we have performed How the The exceptional items are excluded as they do procedures to assess, based on current facts and circumstances, whether the estimates made by Management are accurate.
scope of not represent part of the underlying trading our audit performance of the business.
We have held discussions with legal counsel to ascertain whether Managements model reflects the progress of negotiations that have been responded held with freeholders.
Parent Company 39.9 million 2017: 38.0 million to the key materiality audit matter The largest component of this calculation are the payments to be made to freeholders in order to alter the terms of the leases.
In order to verify Basis for Approximately 1% 2017: approximately 1% of net these amounts we have confirmed the status of negotiations with freeholders and, where these negotiations had been completed, obtained the determining assets of 3,918.2 million 2017: 3,862.7 million.
agreements and recalculated the specific amounts that have been provided for.
Where these negotiations had not been completed we materiality This is capped at 95% 2017: 95% of Group assessed the value that was provided for these freeholder payments.
materiality which we considered appropriate for the consolidation of this set of financial statements to the Key Based on the procedures performed, we considered the provision calculated by Management to be prudent.
However, our estimate of any Groups results.
The increase in materiality is driven observations potential overstatement in the provision was below materiality and, if adjusted would not have increased the post-tax profit of the Group by a by the increase in Group materiality.
material amount as at 31 December 2018.
Rationale for the Net assets is used as the benchmark as this entity is benchmark applied a Parent Company and not a trading entity.
128 128 Independent auditors report continued In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as An overview of the scope of our audit uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where The Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group we conclude that: and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the UK Housing division taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the excluding joint ventures which represents the principal segment within the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position Group and accounts for 98% 2017: 98% of the Groups net operating and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent assets, 97% 2017: 98% of the Groups revenue and 97% 2017: 97% of with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Groups pre-tax profit before exceptional items.
Our audit work on the principal segment was executed at a lower level of materiality 38.0 million Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us 2017: 34.2 million.
to the Audit Committee: or We audit all of the Groups UK subsidiaries which are subject to audit at Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance statutory materiality level, which in most cases is substantially lower than Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Group materiality.
The statutory audits are finalised subsequent to the Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate audit of the Group accounts.
Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the For the Spanish operations and material joint ventures desktop review auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly procedures are conducted by the UK team.
disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of Responsibilities of Directors specified account balances.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and The audit is performed centrally and includes all of the 24 regional business for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal units within the Groups UK Housing division.
We choose to visit a sample control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of of these business units selected on a rotational basis.
The purpose of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due these visits is to conduct procedures over selected controls that are in to fraud or error.
place at each business unit and also to perform substantive testing of certain balances.
In the current year we performed regional visits to four In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for 2017: four locations.
In addition, we also visit other business units assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a throughout the entity which are chosen on a random basis.
During these going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern visits we assess the commonality of the controls in line with the group-wide and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either controls identified, as well as performing substantive testing.
This was intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease performed at four 2017: four locations.
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Parent Company is located in the UK and audited directly by the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Group audit team.
financial statements Other information Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, comprises the information included in the annual report including the whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes strategic report, Directors report and corporate governance statement, our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the materially misstated.
financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material part of our auditors report.
misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the Extent to which the audit was considered capable of other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude detecting irregularities, including fraud that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the required to report that fact.
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 128 129 129 Independent auditors report continued In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities Report on other legal and regulatory requirements An overview of the scope of our audit uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of The Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies we conclude that: irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks Act 2006 our procedures included the following: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the UK Housing division enquiring of management, internal audit and the audit committee, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the excluding joint ventures which represents the principal segment within the including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position Group and accounts for 98% 2017: 98% of the Groups net operating the Groups policies and procedures relating to: for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent assets, 97% 2017: 98% of the Groups revenue and 97% 2017: 97% of is consistent with the financial statements: and identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Groups pre-tax profit before exceptional items.
Our audit work on the whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in principal segment was executed at a lower level of materiality 38.0 million Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit accordance with applicable legal requirements.
detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us 2017: 34.2 million.
knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: and In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the to the Audit Committee: or We audit all of the Groups UK subsidiaries which are subject to audit at Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance statutory materiality level, which in most cases is substantially lower than we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or non-compliance with laws and regulations.
Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Group materiality.
The statutory audits are finalised subsequent to the the Directors report.
Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate discussing among the engagement team and involving relevant internal audit of the Group accounts.
Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the specialists, including tax, pensions, IT, and industry specialists regarding Matters on which we are required to report by exception For the Spanish operations and material joint ventures desktop review auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any procedures are conducted by the UK team.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified Governance Code.
potential for fraud in the inventory costing and margin recognition key Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and audit matter as described on page 125: and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were we have not received all the information and explanations we require We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that for our audit: or information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of Responsibilities of Directors the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent specified account balances.
direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and The audit is performed centrally and includes all of the 24 regional business from branches not visited by us: or considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal units within the Groups UK Housing division.
We choose to visit a sample the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with pensions legislation, tax legislation, and housebuilding and construction control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of of these business units selected on a rotational basis.
The purpose of the accounting records and returns.
In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due these visits is to conduct procedures over selected controls that are in regulations that do not have a direct effect on the financial statements to fraud or error.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
place at each business unit and also to perform substantive testing of but compliance with which may be fundamental to the Groups ability to certain balances.
In the current year we performed regional visits to four In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for Directors remuneration continue as a going concern or to avoid a material penalty, such as 2017: four locations.
In addition, we also visit other business units assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a employment law and health and safety requirements.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our throughout the entity which are chosen on a random basis.
During these going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made.
visits we assess the commonality of the controls in line with the group-wide and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either Audit response to risks identified controls identified, as well as performing substantive testing.
This was We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease As a result of performing the above, we identified inventory costing and performed at four 2017: four locations.
margin recognition as a key audit matter.
The key audit matters section of Other matters The Parent Company is located in the UK and audited directly by the our report explains the matter in more detail and also describes the specific Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Group audit team.
Auditor tenure procedures we performed in response to that key audit matter.
financial statements Following recommendation of the audit committee, we were reappointed In addition to the above our procedures to respond to risks identified Other information Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the by the shareholders of Taylor Wimpey plc on 26 April 2018 to audit the included the following: The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and comprises the information included in the annual report including the reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes subsequent financial periods.
strategic report, Directors report and corporate governance statement, documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a Following the merger of Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey, we were other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
discussed above: guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always appointed as auditor of the merged group for subsequent financial periods.
detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise enquiring of management, the audit committee and in-house and Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other Prior to that we were the auditor of Taylor Woodrow.
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the external legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic As explained on page 85, our final year of association with the Group will be and claims: report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
After the 2020 year end we are performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility required to mandatorily rotate from our role as auditor.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be reviewing internal audit reports: and A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the audit committee materially misstated.
financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit www.
This description forms testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: committee that we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material part of our auditors report.
assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material Use of our report estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the Extent to which the audit was considered capable of rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude detecting irregularities, including fraud normal course of business.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the required to report that fact.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design Companys members those matters we are required to state to them fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists, and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone and regulations throughout the audit.
other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Edward Hanson ACA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 26 February 2019
