INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TBC BANK GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion, TBC Bank Group PLCs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit and the groups and the parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise the: Consolidated and Separate Statements of Financial Position as at 31 December 2018: Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: Consolidated and Separate Statements of Cash Flows for the year then ended: Consolidated and Separate Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and Notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
Other than those disclosed in note 33 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the parent company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: GEL 25.5 million 2017: GEL 19.7 million, based on 5% of profit before tax.
Overall parent company materiality: GEL 15.5 million 2017: GEL 14.7 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Our scoping was driven by legal entity contribution to profit before tax and also by geographical location.
This approach also ensures that we align our resources with the location of the key financial reporting functions and material operations of the group.
We also considered overall coverage in assessing the appropriateness of our scoping.
Our primary location for scoping purposes is Tbilisi, Georgia.
The key audit matters which were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements were credit losses of loans and advances to customers, and matters related to the National Bank of Georgia investigation.
There were no key audit matters to report on the audit of the parent company financial statements.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 167 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TBC BANK GROUP PLC CONTINUED Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the group and the legal, regulatory and banking industry in which it operates, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to breaches of the rules of the National Bank of Georgia, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the group and parent company financial statements.
We address this as a Key Audit Matter below.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and UK and local tax legislation.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to management bias in accounting estimates.
The group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors referred to in the scoping section of our report below, so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the group engagement team and or component auditors included: Enquiries of management, including the groups Chief Legal Counsel, and Internal Audit, in relation to known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud: Evaluation and testing of the operating effectiveness of managements controls designed to prevent and detect fraud and errors in financial reporting: Assessment of matters reported on the groups whistleblowing helpline and the results of managements investigation of such matters: Observing the effectiveness of key governance committees and reviewing management information presented at these meetings: Reading key correspondence with regulatory authorities and legal advisors: Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to the impairment of loans and advances: and Identifying and testing journal entries.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above, and the further removed that non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
The key audit matters below relate to the group.
There are no matters that impact the parent company only.
168 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Credit losses of loans and advances to customers We understood and evaluated the design of the key controls over the determination of ECLs and tested their Refer to pages 156 to 166 Audit Committee Chairs report, operating effectiveness.
These controls included among pages 183 to 204 Summary of Significant Accounting others: Policies, page 204 to 205 Critical Accounting Estimates, Model performance monitoring controls, including and pages 212 to 223 note 9: Loans and Advances to testing model estimates against actual outcomes: customers.
Review and approval of the key judgements and We focused on this area as the management estimates assumptions used for determining an SICR, LGDs and PDs: regarding impairment of loans are complex and require Controls over the completeness and accuracy of data a significant degree of judgement, which increased with flow between systems: implementation of expected credit loss ECL approach Manual controls over parameters calculation by the effective from 1 January 2018 as required by IFRS 9 calculation engine: Financial Instruments.
Manual controls over designation of exposures as Credit loss allowances represent managements best restructured.
estimate of expected credit losses ECL within each We noted no exceptions in the design or operating portfolio at the balance sheet date.
effectiveness of the above controls.
Under IFRS 9 management is required to determine We assessed whether the IFRS 9 ECL model ECLs that may occur over either a 12 month period or the methodologies developed by management are appropriate, remaining life of an asset, depending on the categorisation making use of our credit risk modelling experts and our of the individual asset.
This categorisation is determined industry knowledge.
This included an evaluation of the by an assessment of whether or not there has been a criteria set by management for determining whether significant increase in credit risk SICR of the borrower there had been a significant increase in credit risk since loan origination.
It is also necessary to consider the SICR, and the judgements and assumptions applied impact of different future macroeconomic conditions in the in determination of LGDs and PDs.
We also critically determination of ECLs.
evaluated managements assumptions in response to data Management has designed and implemented a number limitations, focusing on long-term PDs.
We concluded that of models to achieve compliance with the requirements managements judgements in deriving LGDs and PDs were of IFRS 9.
Among others, management has applied reasonable.
judgement in situations where past experience was not We independently verified the calculation of ECL, and considered to be reflective of future outcomes due to assessed whether the ECL calculations were consistent limited or incomplete data.
As a result, we consider that with the approved model methodologies.
this represents a key audit matter.
We critically evaluated key aspects of model monitoring We consider the appropriateness of the model and validation backtesting of projected ECL performed methodologies and the following judgements used in the by management relating to model performance and determination of the modelled ECL to be significant: stability and critically assessed the monitoring results.
We Setting of appropriate criteria for what represents an SICR: found no exceptions in this work.
Judgements and assumptions applied in the We considered whether PMAs were required to address determination of loss given default LGD and relevant risks that were not captured in the modelled probability of default PD : and provisions.
We were satisfied that no PMAs are required.
Assessment of model limitations and use of post model adjustments PMAs if required to address such risks.
Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, we concluded that managements judgements used in the determination of the ECLs were reasonable.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 169 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TBC BANK GROUP PLC CONTINUED Matters related to National Bank of Georgia investigation We read the NBG report and other related correspondence between NBG and the Bank, in order to understand On 19 November 2018, the National Bank of Georgia the nature and extent of the NBG conclusions, and we NBG issued a report concerning JSC TBC Bank, the considered the impact of these on our audit.
main subsidiary of TBC Bank Group plc.
The NBGs report relates to its inspection of loans issued to the Banks We made inquiries of the founders of the Bank, and other clients in 2008.
These loans were immediately paid to the Board executives, including Legal Counsel and Head of two founders of the Bank.
The clients loans were fully Compliance, to more fully understand the NBG findings provided for by the Bank at the end of the same year.
in detail, including requesting and reviewing additional NBG concluded that, in relation to these transactions, documentation from the Banks records.
the Bank had failed to fully comply with NBG Decree 116 We discussed our work with TBC Bank Group plcs Audit on Regulation of Conflicts of Interests and Transactions Committee, and understood the approach taken by the between Bank Administrators and related Parties.
independent directors to fulfil their obligations.
The NBG conclusion resulted in a GEL 1.1m fine, We carried out the following additional audit procedures and required the two founders to step down from the and looked back over the period from 2008: Supervisory Board of JSC TBC Bank.
The Bank is also required to appoint 2 new board members within a period We re-confirmed our understanding of the oversight of 3 months.
and monitoring controls that management has in place regarding related party transactions.
We tested We focused on the implications of this matter for our audit approach and risk assessment, and the appropriateness of these controls to assess whether they were operating audit procedures performed with respect to management effectively.
override of controls, related party lending, any material We examined the loan book data to identify any unusual unrecorded regulatory fines, and the reliability of items, including any loans with terms which appeared management representations.
unusual with respect to commercial terms, for example, maturity, interest rate.
We analysed reported related party credit exposures for any unusual terms.
We examined the list of loans which had been written off, and obtained explanations for any unusual items.
We tested a sample of loans to assess whether funds issued to borrowers had been used according to the approved lending purposes.
We checked the Banks correspondence with NBG.
We reviewed the work of Compliance and Internal Audit in the area of related party procedures, and evaluated any remediation undertaken by management of findings in this regard.
We verified that the fine had been correctly accounted for in the Bank, and agreed it to the payment made on 12 March 2019.
Based on the audit procedures performed, no material issues were identified.
170 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
TBC Bank Groups banking and insurance activities are primarily carried out in Georgia, with small subsidiary operations in four other countries.
The Groups business activities comprise of four segments for which it manages and reports its operating results and financial position, namely Retail Banking, Corporate and Investment Banking and Micro Small and Medium Enterprises MSME and Corporate Centre.
JSC TBC Bank is the largest subsidiary of the London listed group.
Its main operations are Retail and Commercial banking, with all significant operations based in Georgia.
Accounting functions and management of JSC TBC Bank are primarily based in Georgia, and represents 97% of the group assets and 96% of profit before tax.
We performed audit procedures over this component which is considered financially significant in the context of the group, using a materiality of GEL 24.2 million 2017: GEL 18.7 million.
We also performed other audit procedures including testing information technology general controls and other relevant controls related to financial reporting, to mitigate the risk of material misstatement.
Our audit approach and team was also designed to reflect the structure of the group, and we therefore used component auditors from PwC in each of the relevant territories, all of whom are familiar with the relevant businesses in their geographical locations, to audit the relevant component that was in scope for the group audit.
As part of the planning and execution of the audit, the UK audit team visited the significant component in Georgia on several occasions, in order to ensure that the procedures performed to support the group audit were sufficient for our purposes.
Specific audit procedures were also performed at the UK parent company, mainly related to the presentation of the group financial statements, the consolidation process, taxation and elements of laws and regulations specific to the UK.
Based on the procedures we performed over the reporting units our audit scoping coverage accounted for 92% of revenue and 98% of total assets of the group.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality GEL 25.5 million 2017: GEL 19.7 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark We believe that profit before tax is the The parent company is a holding company applied primary measure used by the shareholders with investments in the subsidiaries in assessing the performance of the within the Group.
The parent companys consolidated Group, and is a generally performance is measured based on the accepted auditing benchmark.
value of these investments, and therefore total assets is considered an appropriate materiality benchmark.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 171 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TBC BANK GROUP PLC CONTINUED For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between GEL 24.2 million and GEL 25.5 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was less than our overall group materiality allocation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above GEL1.3 million group audit 2017: GEL 0.9 million and GEL 0.8 million parent only 2017: GEL 0.7 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
to add or draw attention to in respect of the directors However, because not all future events or conditions can statement in the financial statements about whether the be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going groups and parent companys ability to continue as a concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial going concern.
statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement We have nothing to report.
relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
172 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 118 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on pages 118-119 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 119, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 159 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 173 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TBC BANK GROUP PLC CONTINUED Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 119, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited, are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the directors on 11 August 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 3 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2018.
Jeremy Foster Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 2 April 2019 174 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018
