Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TELECOM PLUS PLC 1 Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Telecom Plus PLC the Company for the year ended 31 March 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Consolidated and Company Cash flow statements and Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies on pages 94 to 104.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 20 February 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 4 financial years ended 31 March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
OVERVIEW Materiality: group financial statements as a whole 1.8m 2017: 1.65m 4.5% 2017: 4.5% of reported profit before tax of normalised group profit before tax from continuing operations Coverage 100% 2017: 100% of group profit before tax from continuing operations RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT VS 2017 Recurring risks Energy revenue recognition unchanged Recoverability of parent Companys investment in subsidiaries Parent Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 81 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TELECOM PLUS PLC CONTINUED 2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
THE RISK OUR RESPONSE Energy revenue recognition Use of estimates Our procedures included: 617.8m: 2017 576.2m Revenue recognised in relation to the Control design: testing the design, supply of gas and electricity includes implementation and operating estimates of the usage of the energy effectiveness of the Groups controls Refer to page 47 Audit Committee supplied to customers between which include monitoring the Report, page 95 critical accounting the date of the last meter reading accuracy of the billing systems estimates, page 97 accounting and the year end.
The method of estimation of energy usage: policy and page 106 financial estimating the usage is complex and Test of detail: for a sample of disclosures.
judgmental, requiring estimates and customers analysing the accuracy assumptions to be made to assess the of the energy usage estimate volume of energy supplied, which is at the year end by comparing sensitive to a number of factors, one actual usage, obtained from meter of which includes any volatility in readings received between 15 weather patterns.
March 2018 and 2 April 2018, The risk of misstatement is that the with the billing system generated accounting for the Groups estimated estimated usage for the same revenues does not appropriately period: reflect the underlying actual delivery Test of detail: assessing the volume of gas and electricity as at 31 March and nature of customer complaints 2018 and as a result revenues may received in relation to estimated be misstated.
meter readings in order to identify whether any indicators exist of an underlying issue with the Groups estimation of energy usage: and Assessing transparency: considering whether the critical accounting estimates, judgements and assumptions, and accounting policy disclosures properly reflect the judgements and estimates inherent in recognising revenue.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of energy revenue recognition to be acceptable 2017 result: acceptable.
82 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements THE RISK OUR RESPONSE Recoverability of parent Companys Low risk, high value Our procedures included: investment in subsidiaries 262.0m: 2017: 227.1m The carrying amount of the parent Tests of detail: comparing the companys investments in subsidiaries carrying amount of material Refer to page 47 Audit Committee represents 99% 2017: 71% of investments within the draft balance Report, page 96 critical accounting the companys total assets.
Their sheet to identify whether their net estimates, page 100 accounting recoverability is not at a high risk of assets, being an approximation of policy and pages 113 to 115 significant misstatement or subject their minimum recoverable amount, financial disclosures.
However, were in excess of their carrying due to their materiality in the context amount and assessing whether those of the parent company financial subsidiaries have historically been statements, this is considered to be profit-making.
the area that had the greatest effect Our sector experience: For the on our overall parent company audit.
investments where the carrying amount exceeded the net asset value, comparing the carrying amount of the investment with the expected value of the business based upon a simple discounted cash flow model.
Our results We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2017 result: acceptable.
We continue to perform procedures over the Energy supply agreement intangible asset.
Telecom Plus PLC have an established track record of performance and retention of customers within existing market conditions and as such that we have not identified an impairment indicator.
We have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 1.8m 2017: 1.65m.
The 2018 materiality has been determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax from continuing operations of 39.8m, normalised to exclude a recovery of 1.2m of previously incurred costs relating to Electricity Market Reform levy costs, of which it represents 4.5% 2017: 4.5%.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 1.3m 2017: 1.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of company total assets, of which it represents 0.5% 2017: 4.3% of group profit before tax from continuing operations.
The change in materiality benchmark calculation between 2017 and 2018 is due to a movement in the trade and assets of that company to a newly incorporated company within the group.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 90,000 2017: 82,500, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 83 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TELECOM PLUS PLC CONTINUED Four 2017: five components were subjected to full scope audits, all conducted by the Group team, with a component materiality ranging from 43,900 to 1,350,000 2017: 35,000 to 1,237,500.
These components accounted for 100% of total Group revenue: 100% of Group profit before taxation and 100% of total Group assets.
In 2017 the Group audit team also performed specified risk-focused procedures over the share of profit of associate prior to its disposal, covering the revenue recognition policy and estimation of supply of energy to customers.
The group team performed procedures on the item excluded from normalised group profit before tax from continuing operations.
MATERIALITY NORMALISED PROFIT BEFORE TAX FROM 1.8m 2017: 1.65m CONTINUING OPERATIONS 39.8m 2017: 36.6m 1.8m Whole financial statements materiality 2017: 1.65m 1.35m Range of materiality at four components 43,900 - 1,350,000 2017: 35,000 - 1,237,500 90,000 Normalised profit before tax from continuing operations Misstatements reported to the audit committee Group materiality 2017: 82,500 GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX GROUP REVENUE 100% 100% 2017: 100% 2017: 98% Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 100 100 specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 100 1 100 00 Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 NORMALISED GROUP PROFIT BEFORE GROUP TOTAL ASSETS TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 100% 100% 2017: 100% 2017: 100% 100 100 100 100 84 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 4 We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: W e have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in the notes to the financial statements on page 94 on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on pages 77 to 78 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
5 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within Risk, Control and Viability Statement, page 77 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the Risk, Control and Viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 85 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TELECOM PLUS PLC CONTINUED Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Risk, Control and Viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
7 Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on pages 79 to 80, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
86 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific area of energy regulation recognising the nature of the Groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible noncompliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part our procedures on the related financial statement items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of health and safety, anti-bribery, employment law, recognising the nature of the groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
David Neale Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5GL United Kingdom 18 June 2018 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2018 87
