INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC 1.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS: OUR ASSESSMENT OF Our response: Our procedures were designed to challenge The risk: Subjective estimate.
Inventory is carried in the We have audited the financial statements of Ted Baker Plc for RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT whether there were any indicators of impairments and the need Financial Statements at the lower of cost and net realisable the 52 week period ended 27 January 2018 which comprise the Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional for any provisions against the asset carrying value and include: value.
Sales in the fashion industry can be extremely volatile Group Income Statement, Group Statement of Comprehensive judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial with consumer demand changing significantly based on Income, Group Statement of Changes in Equity, Company statements and include the most significant assessed risks of Test of detail: evaluating the methodology, completeness current trends.
As a result, there is a risk that the carrying value Statement of Changes in Equity, Group and Company Balance material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified and accuracy of the Groups impairment trigger of inventory exceeds in net realisable value.
Sheet, Group and Company Cash Flow Statement, and the by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the assessment.
This assessment is undertaken by the Our response: Our procedures were designed to challenge related notes, including the accounting policies in Note 1. overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the Directors for all stores regardless of the period of time the the adequacy of the Groups provisions against inventory by In our opinion: audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
This analysis is used to identify those seasonal collection.
Our procedures included: summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from stores performing below expectations and accordingly the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 2017, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at with assets at a greater risk of impairment.
For stores Control operation: testing on a sample basis the design state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures identified by this analysis, we considered whether there and operation of controls related to inventory stock counts as at 27 January 2018 and of the Groups profit for the 52 to address those matters and, as required for public interest was an indicator of impairment based on the number and purchases: weeks then ended: entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters of years the store has been open, as well as store Test of detail: testing on a sample basis that items on the Group financial statements have been properly were addressed, and our results are based on procedures performance: the stock ageing listing by season were classified in the prepared in accordance with International Financial undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, Where there were indicators of impairment, our appropriate ageing bracket by reference to season: Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming procedures over the Directors calculation of recoverable Historical trends: evaluated the current year provision IFRSs as adopted by the EU : our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to amount included: by assessing historical trends.
We examined the Groups the parent Company financial statements have been that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion Our business understanding: Assessing the key historical trading patterns of inventory sold at full price properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by on these matters.
assumptions including growth rates in turnover and and inventory sold below full price through alternative the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of margin expectations by reference to historical rates clearance routes, together with the related margins the Companies Act 2006: and Valuation of store assets leasehold improvements, achieved, and our understanding of the specific factors achieved for each channel.
We used the information on the financial statements have been prepared in fixtures, fittings and office equipment 73.9m relevant to each store: trading patterns to assess whether the provisions held accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2017: 80.7m Sensitivity analysis: Applying sensitivity analysis on the have historically been set at an appropriate level: and 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, key assumptions used in the cash flow forecasts to assess Our business understanding: assessing, based Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Refer to page 41 Audit Committee Report, the possible range of outcomes and the overall risk of any on our knowledge of the Group and the market, the page 93 accounting policy and pages 106 and 107 material impairment.
appropriateness of the provision percentages applied by BASIS FOR OPINION financial disclosures.
challenging the assumptions made by the Directors on We conducted our audit in accordance with International The risk: Forecast-based valuation.
The Group has Our results: The results of our testing were satisfactory the extent to which older season inventory can be sold Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
invested a significant amount of capital both within and outside and we found the carrying value of retail store assets to be through various channels.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the the UK in its store portfolio.
Given the relative immaturity of the acceptable 2017: acceptable.
audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate brand outside the UK, the payback period is typically longer Our results: From the evidence obtained, we considered basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our than for UK stores.
The Group had 503 2017: 462 stores and Valuation of Inventory 187.2m 2017: 158.5m the level of provisioning to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
report to the Audit Committee.
There is a risk that We were appointed as auditors for the 52 week period the carrying value of the retail store leasehold improvements, Refer to page 41 Audit Committee Report, page 93 ended 27 January 2001.
The period of total uninterrupted fixtures, fittings and office equipment may be overstated if accounting policy and page 113 financial disclosures.
engagement is for the 18 financial years ended 27 January the profitability expectations for the related stores are 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and adversely impacted by trading and other conditions that we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK were not anticipated in the initial business case.
The level of ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as judgement involved in assessing impairment indicators on applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services retail stores is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit prohibited by that standard were provided.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 74 75 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC Recoverability of parent companys investment in the results of that work, on those net assets, including For the remaining components, we performed analysis any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
subsidiaries 24.8m 2017: 23.1m and recoverability assessing the ability of the subsidiary to obtain liquid at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in of parents debt due from Group entities 55.2m funds and therefore the ability of the subsidiary to fund the that there were no significant risks of material misstatement doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements 2017: 51.9m repayment of the receivable.
audit work, the information therein is materially misstated The Group audit team instructed component auditors in the or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit Refer to page 93 accounting policy and page 108 to 109 Our results: We found the Groups assessment of the US as to the significant areas to be covered, including where knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified and 113 financial disclosures.
recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries and the relevant the risks detailed above and the information to be material misstatements in the other information.
The risk: Low risk, high value.
The carrying amount of parents debt due from Group entities to be acceptable 2017: reported back.
The UK components audits were covered by the the parent companys investments in subsidiaries represents acceptable.
The Group audit team approved the components Strategic Report and Directors Report 31% 2017: 30% of the parent companys total assets.
The materialitys which ranged from 0.6m to 2.3m 2017: 2.2m Based solely on our work on the other information: carrying amount of the intra-group debtor balance represents 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN to 2.9m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of 68% 2017: 67% of the parent companys total assets.
Their OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT the Group across the components.
The work on 2 components we have not identified material misstatements in the recoverability is not at a high risk of significant misstatement The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole 2017: 2 components was performed by component auditors Strategic Report and the Directors Report: or subject to significant judgement.
However, due to their was set at 3.4m 2017: 3.0m, determined with reference to and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was in our opinion the information given in those reports materiality in the context of the parent company financial a benchmark of Group profit before tax of which it represents performed by the Group team.
for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements, this is considered to be the area that had the 4.9% 2017: 4.8%.
In 2018 and 2017, the Group team visited the component statements: and greatest effect on our overall parent company audit.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements auditor in the US and telephone conference meetings were held in our opinion those reports have been prepared in Our response: Our procedures included: as a whole was set at 0.8m 2017: 0.8m, determined with with the US component auditor.
At these meetings the Group accordance with the Companies Act 2006. reference to a benchmark of company total assets of which it team discussed the audit strategy and the findings reported Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of 100% of represents 1.0% 2017: 1.0%.
to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and Directors Remuneration Report investments with the relevant subsidiaries trial balance to We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected any further work required by the Group audit team was then In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report identify whether their net assets, being an approximation or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 175,000 performed by the US component auditor.
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with of their minimum recoverable amount, were in excess 2017: 150,000 in addition to other identified misstatements the Companies Act 2006. of their carrying amount and assessing whether those that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.
Of the Groups 24 reporting components 2017: 22 GOING CONCERN Disclosures of Principal Risks and Longer-Term Viability Tests of detail: Assessing a sample of the highest value reporting components, we subjected 4 components 2017: 3 We are required to report to you if: Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial Group debtors representing 92% of the total Group components to an audit for Group reporting purposes 3 UK statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw debtors balance to identify, with reference to the relevant components and 1 US component 2017: 3 UK components we have anything material to add or draw attention to attention to in relation to: debtors trial balance, whether they have a positive net and 1 component Canada to specified risk focused audit in relation to the Directors statement in Note 1 to the asset value and therefore coverage of the debt owed, as procedures 2017: 1 component, US.
The latter were not financial statements on the use of the going concern basis the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement well as assessing whether those debtor companies have individually financially significant enough to require a full scope of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast on page 26 that they have carried out a robust assessment historically been profit-making.
audit for group purposes, but did present specific individual significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work risks that needed to be addressed.
that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the would threaten its business model, future performance, performed by the subsidiary audit team, and considering date of approval of the financial statements: or solvency and liquidity: the related statement under the Listing Rules set the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosures The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Groups results: out on page 26 is materially inconsistent with our describing these risks and explaining how they are being audit knowledge.
managed and mitigated: and NUMBER OF TOTAL GROUP TOTAL PROFITS AND TOTAL GROUP COMPONENTS REVENUE LOSSES THAT MADE UP ASSETS the Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX We have nothing to report in these respects.
how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over 2018 what period they have done so and why they considered Audits for Group reporting purposes 4 83% 88% 88% 5.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to Specified risk focused audit procedures 1 4% 2% 2% THE OTHER INFORMATION IN THE whether they have a reasonable expectation that the TOTAL 5 87% 90% 90% ANNUAL REPORT Group will be able to continue in operation and meet 2017 The Directors are responsible for the other information its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their presented in the Annual Report together with the financial assessment, including any related disclosures drawing Audits for Group reporting purposes 3 61% 92% 64% statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Specified risk focused audit procedures 1 24% 4% 22% not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not TOTAL 4 85% 96% 86% express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 76 77 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TED BAKER PLC Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the 7.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES We communicated identified laws and regulations Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Directors Responsibilities throughout our team and remained alert to any indications Corporate Governance Disclosures As explained more fully in their statement set out on page of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included We are required to report to you if: 72, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the communication from the Group to component audit teams of financial statements including being satisfied that they give relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level, with we have identified material inconsistencies between the a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine a request to report on any indications of potential existence knowledge we acquired during our financial statements is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations audit and the Directors statement that they consider that that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability by the component team.
whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of the information necessary for shareholders to assess the matters related to going concern: and using the going concern non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and Groups position and performance, business model and basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, strategy: or Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the no realistic alternative but to do so.
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
THE PURPOSE OF OUR AUDIT WORK AND Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about TO WHOM WE OWE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES We are required to report to you if the Corporate whether the financial statements as a whole are free from This report is made solely to the Companys members, Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of that we might state to the Companys members those matters We have nothing to report in these respects.
assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 6.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than THE OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken you if, in our opinion: on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the FRCs website at www.
Lourens fide Villiers parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Senior Statutory Auditor not been received from branches not visited by us: or Irregularities Ability to Detect for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor the parent Company financial statements and the part of We identified areas of laws and regulations that could Chartered Accountants the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the 15 Canada Square in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or financial statements from our sector experience, and through London certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by discussion with the Directors and other management as E14 5GL law are not made: or required by auditing standards.
22 March 2018 we have not received all the information and explanations We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that we require for our audit.
directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation We have nothing to report in these respects.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 78 79
