STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Opinion We have audited the financial statements of Temple Bar Investment Trust plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Financial Position, Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 22, including a summary of signi cant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
In our opinion, the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of its pro t for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to public interest entities, and we have ful lled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suf cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 13 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors con rmation set out on page 28 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 18 in the annual report about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identi cation of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 13 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary quali cations or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Risk of incomplete or inaccurate revenue recognition, including classi cation of special dividends as revenue or capital items in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Risk of incorrect valuation and defective title to the investment portfolio.
Materiality Overall materiality of 8.02m which represents 1% of equity shareholders funds.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signi cance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most signi cant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identi ed.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 29 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Incomplete or inaccurate revenue We have performed the following The results of our procedures are: recognition, including classi cation procedures: We have no issues to communicate with of special dividends as revenue or We obtained an understanding of the respect to our procedures performed capital items in the Statement of Managers and Administrators processes over the risk of incomplete or inaccurate Comprehensive Income per the Audit and controls surrounding revenue revenue recognition, including classi cation Committee report set out on page 26 and recognition and allocation of special of special dividends as revenue or capital the accounting policy set out on page 40. dividends by reviewing their internal items in the Statement of Comprehensive The income received for the year to controls report and performing our Income.
31 December 2018 was 37.2 6m 2017: walkthrough procedures to evaluate the 34.0m, consisting primarily of dividend design and implementation of controls.
We agreed a sample of dividends The income receivable by the Company received from the income report to the during the year directly affects the corresponding announcement made by Companys revenue return.
There is a risk the investee company.
We recalculated of incomplete or inaccurate recognition of the dividend amount receivable using income through the failure to recognise exchange rates obtained from an proper income entitlements or applying independent data vendor and con rmed appropriate accounting treatment.
that the cash received as shown on bank statements was consistent with the In addition to the above, the Directors recalculated amount.
are required to exercise judgment in determining whether income receivable We agreed a sample of investee in the form of special dividends should be company dividend announcements classi ed as revenue or capital.
from an independent data vendor to the income recorded by the Company to test completeness of the income recorded.
For all dividends accrued at the year end, we reviewed the investee company announcements to assess whether the obligation arose prior to 31 December 2018.
We agreed the dividend rate to corresponding announcements made by the investee company.
We recalculated the dividend amount receivable and con rmed this was consistent with cash received as shown on post year end bank statements, where paid.
We reviewed the income report and the acquisition and disposal report produced by the Administrator to identify special dividends received or accrued in excess of our revenue testing threshold.
The Company received two special dividends above our revenue testing threshold, amounting to 993k.
We reviewed the underlying circumstances and motives for the payments to verify the classi cation of both special dividends as revenue.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 30 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Incorrect valuation and defective title We performed the following procedures: The results of our procedures are: to the investment portfolio as described For all listed investments in the portfolio, We have no issues to communicate with on page 26 in the Report of the Audit we compared the market values and respect to our procedures performed over Committee and as per the accounting exchange rates applied to an independent the risk of incorrect valuation and defective policy set out on page 41. pricing vendor.
title to the investment portfolio.
The valuation of the investment portfolio We reviewed the price exception and at 31 December 2018 was 905.13m stale pricing reports produced by the 2017: 1,035.7m consisting entirely of listed Administrator to highlight and investigate investments.
any unexpected price movements in The valuation of the assets held in the investments held as at the year-end.
investment portfolio is the key driver of We agreed the Companys investments the Companys net asset value and total to the independent con rmation received return.
Incorrect investment pricing, or a from the Companys Custodian and failure to maintain proper legal title of the Depositary as at 31 December 2018. investments held by the Company could have a signi cant impact on the portfolio valuation and the return generated for shareholders.
The fair value of listed investments is determined by reference to stock exchange quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the year-end date.
There have been no changes to the areas of key focus raised in the above risk table from the prior year.
An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Company.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk pro le, the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identi ed misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to in uence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 8.02m 2017: 9.36m which is 1% of equity shareholders funds.
We believe that equity shareholders funds provides us with materiality aligned to the key measurement of the Companys performance.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% of our planning materiality, namely 6.02m 2017: 7.02m.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Company, we have also applied a separate testing threshold for the revenue column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income of 1.66m 2017: 1.46m being 5% of pro t before tax.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identi ed misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.40m 2017: 0.47m which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 31 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to speci cally address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 28 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 26 to 27 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 23 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions speci ed for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identi ed material misstatements in the strategic report or directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 28, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 32 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to in uence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain suf cient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identi ed during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Company and determined that the most signi cant are IFRS, the Companies Act 2006, AIC SORP, the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code and Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
We understood how the Company is complying with those frameworks through discussions with the Audit Committee and Company Secretary and review of the Companys documented policies and procedures.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Companys financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the key risks impacting the financial statements.
We identi ed a fraud risk with respect to the incomplete or inaccurate income recognition through incorrect classi cation of special dividends.
Further discussion of our approach is set out in the section on key audit matters above.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved review of the reporting to the directors with respect to the application of the documented policies and procedures and review of the financial statements to ensure compliance with the reporting requirements of the Company.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Company with effect from 1 January 2003 to audit the financial statements of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2003 and subsequent financial periods, and signed an engagement letter on 12 November 2003.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 16 years, covering periods from our appointment through to the period ending 31 December 2018.
Non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company and we remain independent of the Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Caroline Mercer Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Edinburgh 2 1 February 2019 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Temple Bar Investment Trust plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 201 8 33 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED T TE EM MP PL LE B E BA AR I R IN NV five ES ST TM ME EN NT T T TR RU US ST P T PL LC C 34 34 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & F t & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 31 D d 31 fide ec ce em mb be er 2 r 20 01 1 8 8
