Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust Plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC the Company which comprise: the Income Statement: the Balance Sheet: the Statement of Changes in Equity: the Cash Flow Statement: the Accounting Policies: and the related notes 1 to 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: valuation and ownership of quoted investments: Revenue recognition: completeness of dividend Income.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 23.0m which was determined on the basis of 1% of net asset value.
Scoping The Company has appointed Franklin Templeton International Services S. r. l FTIS as its administrator and alternative investment fund manager AIFM.
As part of our audit we evaluated the design and implementation of relevant controls in place at FTIS.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 63 Independent Auditors Report continued Conclusions relating to going concern, Going concern principal risks and viability statement We have reviewed the directors statement in note a to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 12-13 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 15 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 15 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Company required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
64 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Independent Auditors Report continued Valuation and Ownership of quoted investments Key audit matter description The quoted investments of the Company of 2,370m make up 96.9% of the total assets of the Company at 31 March 2018.
See report of the Audit Committee on page 57, accounting policy g and also see note 6 of the Financial Statements.
Investments are valued at the closing bid price at the year end.
There is a risk that listed investments within the portfolio may not be valued correctly.
There is also a risk that quoted investments within the portfolio may not represent the property of the Company.
As the listed investments of the Company make up 96.9% of total net assets NAV as at 31 March and the NAV is the key driver of the management fee paid to Franklin Templeton International Services S. r. l FTIS, we have considered that there is a potential risk of fraud related to the manipulation of NAV.
If the Company performs well the AIFM benefits with a higher income.
How the scope of our audit responded to We have performed the following procedures to test the valuation of the the key audit matter investment portfolio at 31 March 2018: reviewed the internal controls report over FTIS as it applied to the valuation of quoted investments to assess the adequacy of the design and implementation of key controls: reviewed the internal controls report over the custodian as it applied to the ownership of quoted investments to assess the adequacy of the design and implementation of key controls: agreed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments at year end to an independent pricing source: and agreed 100% of the Companys quoted investment portfolio at the year end to confirmations received directly from the custodian.
Key observations No misstatements were identified which required reporting to those charged with governance.
Revenue recognition: completeness of dividend Income Key audit matter description For the year ended 31 March 2018 income from investments is 60.3m.
Please see Please see Accounting Policy c and note 1.
The Company invests in emerging markets where there is a risk that not all dividend information is captured in a timely manner and, as a result, revenue maybe incomplete or recognised in the incorrect period.
How the scope of our audit responded to We have performed the following procedures to test the completeness of the key audit matter dividend income for the year to 31 March 2018: critically assessed the design and implementation of controls relating to revenue recognition at FTIS which acts as the Companys AIFM: and agreed 100% of dividend income received, obtained ex dividend dates and rates for dividends declared during the year and agreed the amounts to the income received report.
Additionally, we agreed a sample of these to receipt in the Bank Statement.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 65 Independent Auditors Report continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 23.0m 2017: 21.5m Basis for determining materiality 1% of net assets 2017: 1% of net assets Rationale for the benchmark applied Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark for investors and is a key driver of shareholder value.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 460k 2017: 429k, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control and assessing the risks of material misstatement through quantitative and qualitative factors relating to each account balance, class of transactions and disclosure.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
The Company has appointed Franklin Templeton International Services S. r. l FTIS as its administrator and Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
66 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Independent Auditors Report continued Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 67 Independent Auditors Report continued Auditors responsibilities for the audit of Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial the financial statements statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has the Companies Act 2006 been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our and accounting records opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
68 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Independent Auditors Report continued Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 17 July 2009 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2010 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 9 years, covering the years ending 31 March 2010 to 31 March 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
committee Stuart McLaren Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 5 June 2018 www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 69
