Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Scoping Our audit scoping provides full scope audit coverage of 96% 2016 17: 97% Opinion of revenue and 92% 2016 17: 91% of net assets.
In our opinion: Significant changes in our approach the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the In our 2017 18 report the following change to the key audit matters identified Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 24 February 2018 has been made, compared with our 2016 17 report: and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Tesco Bank payment fraud is no longer considered to be a key audit the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in matter following our conclusion in 2016 17 that the Group had appropriately accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs accounted for liabilities associated with the incident.
as adopted by the European Union: Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared Going concern in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting We have reviewed the Directors statement on page 66 to the financial Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group any material uncertainties to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We have audited the financial statements of Tesco PLC the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 the Group income statement: and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge the Group statement of comprehensive income loss : obtained in the audit.
the Group and Parent Company balance sheets: the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity: We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw the Group cash flow statement: and attention to in respect of these matters.
the related Notes 1 to 35 of the Group financial statements and Notes 1 Principal risks and viability statement to 17 of the Parent Company financial statements.
Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been assessment of the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 to add or draw attention to in relation to: Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted the disclosures on pages 22 to 25 that describe the principal risks and Accounting Practice.
explain how they are being managed or mitigated: Basis for opinion the Directors confirmation on page 22 that they have carried out a robust We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit liquidity: or of the financial statements section of our report.
the Directors explanation on page 25 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that necessary qualifications or assumptions.
the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw Summary of our audit approach attention to in respect of these matters.
Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, store impairment review: were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the recognition of commercial income: current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material inventory valuation: misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These pension obligation valuation: matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit contingent liabilities: strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts presentation of the Groups income statement: and of the engagement team.
We have determined that there was a potential for retail technology environment, including IT security.
fraud through possible manipulation of commercial income due to the level No new key audit matters have been included in this report compared to of judgement involved.
Key audit matters have been updated for the current These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial year where required.
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not Materiality provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We have considered a number of benchmarks and determined that it is appropriate to base materiality on profit before tax.
The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 50m 2016 17: 50m which equates to 4.4% of profit before tax before exceptional items.
Refer to page 72 for further details.
68 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Store impairment review As described in Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and Our audit procedures included assessing the design and While we note actions are estimates and Note 11 Property, plant and equipment, the implementation of key controls around the impairment required by the Group to Group held 18,521m 2016 17: 18,108m of property, plant review processes.
achieve these forecasts and equipment at 24 February 2018. over the medium term, In relation to the Directors value-in-use assessment our we concluded that Under IFRS, the Group is required to complete an impairment procedures have included: the assumptions in the review of its store portfolio where there are indicators of impairment models, challenging the key assumptions utilised in the cash flow impairment or impairment reversal.
specifically in the forecasts with reference to historical trading performance, value-in-use calculations, Judgement is required in identifying indicators of impairment and market expectations and our understanding of the Groups were within an acceptable estimation is required in determining the recoverable amount strategic initiatives: range, and that the overall of the Groups store portfolio.
Additionally, there is judgement reviewing and challenging the adequacy of managements level of net reversal of in relation to triggering the reversals of impairments recognised sensitivity analysis in relation to key assumptions to consider impairment was reasonable.
the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the assets to be impaired, There is a risk that the carrying value of stores and related fixed in particular forecast cash flows and property fair values: and assets may be higher than the recoverable amount.
Where a assessing the accuracy of the value-in-use modelling by the review for impairment, or reversal of impairment, is conducted, Group by assessing the methodology applied in determining the recoverable amount is determined based on the higher the value-in-use compared with the requirements of IAS 36 of value-in-use and fair value less costs of disposal.
Impairment of Assets and checking the integrity of the value-in-use models utilised by the Group.
The three areas which are key to managements impairment review are as follows: In relation to the Groups fair value less costs of disposal, we have challenged the assumptions used by the Group in value-in-use is derived from cash flow projections which rely determining the fair market value of the assets, including those upon Directors assumptions and estimates of future trading completed by external valuers, using internal property valuation performance, including the Groups ability to realise forecast specialists and assessing whether appropriate valuation cost savings: methodologies have been applied.
value-in-use is calculated by a number of complex models.
There is a risk the models are not calculating the value-in-use accurately: and in certain circumstances the fair value of properties supports the carrying value of store assets.
There is an estimation required in determining the fair value of properties in each of the Groups territories.
As a result of the Groups store impairment review completed during the year, a net impairment reversal of 187m 2016 17: net impairment reversal of 6m was recognised.
The Audit Committees discussion of this key audit matter is set out on page 42.
Recognition of commercial income As described in Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and We obtained a detailed understanding and evaluated the design The results of our testing estimates and Note 20 Commercial income, the Group has and implementation of controls that the Group has established were satisfactory.
agreements with suppliers whereby volume-related allowances, in relation to commercial income.
We consider the disclosure promotional and marketing allowances and various other fees In addition, our substantive audit procedures across the Groups given around supplier and discounts are received in connection with the purchase retail operations included a combination of the following: rebates to provide an of goods for resale from those suppliers.
As such, the Group appropriate understanding recognises a reduction in cost of sales as a result of amounts testing whether amounts recognised were accurate and of the types of rebate receivable from suppliers.
recorded in the correct period based on the contractual income received and the performance obligations by agreeing a sample of individual In accordance with IFRS, commercial income should only be impact on the Groups supplier agreements: recognised as income within the income statement when the balance sheet as at testing commercial income balances included within inventories performance conditions associated with it have been met, 24 February 2018. and trade and other receivables, or netted against trade and for example where the marketing campaign has been held.
other payables via balance sheet reconciliation procedures: The variety and number of the buying arrangements with circularising a sample of suppliers to test whether the suppliers can make it complex to determine the performance arrangements recorded were complete and held discussions conditions associated with the income, giving rise to a with a sample of buyers to further understand the buying requirement for management judgement and scope for error processes, where required.
Where responses from suppliers in accounting for such income.
As such we have identified this were not received, we completed alternative procedures such as a key audit matter.
as agreement to underlying contractual arrangements: using data analytics to profile commercial income, identifying The Audit Committees discussion of this key audit matter deals which exhibited characteristics of audit interest upon is set out on page 42. which we completed detailed testing: reviewing the Groups ongoing compliance with the Groceries Supplier Code of Practice GSCOP.
Additionally, reviewing the reporting and correspondence to the Groups supplier hotline in order to identify any areas where further investigation was required: and also considering the adequacy of the commercial income related disclosure within the Groups financial statements.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 69 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC continued Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Inventory valuation As described in Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and We obtained a detailed understanding and evaluated the design We concur that the total estimates and Note 15 Inventories, the Group carries and implementation of controls that the Group has established level of provision is within inventory at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell in relation to inventory valuation.
using the weighted average cost basis.
As at 24 February 2018, We obtained assurance over the appropriateness of the Group held inventories of 2,263m 2016 17: 2,301m.
managements assumptions applied in calculating the value The Group provides for obsolescence based on forecast of inventory provisions by: inventory usage.
This methodology relies upon assumptions critically assessing the Groups inventory provisioning policy, made in determining appropriate provisioning percentages with specific consideration given to aged inventory in particular to apply to inventory balances.
for non-food and general merchandising products as well as stock turn calculations, including the impact of seasonality: verifying the value of a sample of inventory items to confirm whether they are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value, through comparison to vendor invoices and sales prices: using data analytics to identify unusual inventory usage characteristics, completing assumption tolerance testing and recalculating the provision in totality based on the Groups policy: and reviewing historical accuracy of inventory provisioning with reference to inventory write-offs during the year in relation to stock loss or other inventory adjustments.
Pension obligation valuation As described in Note 1 Accounting policies, judgements and We obtained a detailed understanding and evaluated the design We are satisfied that estimates and Note 27 Post-employment benefits, the Group and implementation of controls that the Group has established the methodology and has a defined benefit pension plan in the UK.
At 24 February in relation to the pension obligation valuation process.
assumptions applied in 2018, the Group recorded a net retirement obligation before relation to determining In testing the pension valuation, we have utilised internal pension deferred tax of 3,282m 2016 17: 6,621m, comprising scheme the pension valuation are actuarial specialists to review the key actuarial assumptions used, assets of 13,235m 2016 17: 13,196m and scheme liabilities of within an acceptable range.
both financial and demographic, and considered the methodology 16,517m 2016 17: 19,817m.
utilised to derive these assumptions.
Furthermore, we have We consider the change The Group has, after taking actuarial advice, decided to change benchmarked and performed a sensitivity analysis on the key in methodology for the methodology used for deriving the discount rate for valuing assumptions determined by the Directors.
establishing the discount the Groups pension liabilities under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
rate to be acceptable and We have challenged the Groups decision to change the Details of the change and its impact in the period are disclosed compliant with accounting discount rate methodology with reference to developing market in Note 27. standards.
The actual practice, the age of the pension scheme and advice from our discount rate applied The pension valuation is dependent on market conditions and actuarial specialists.
of 2.9% is within our assumptions made.
The key audit matter specifically relates benchmark range.
We to the following key assumptions: discount rate, inflation note that the methodology expectations and life expectancy assumptions.
The setting used by the Group applies of these assumptions is complex and requires the exercise a different approach to of significant management judgement with the support of the observable yields on third party actuaries.
high quality corporate bonds compared with The Audit Committees discussion of this key audit matter our benchmark approach, is set out on page 42. which results in a discount rate which is towards the optimistic end of our acceptable range.
Contingent liabilities In 2016 17 UK shareholder actions were initiated against In assessing the potential exposures to the Group, we have We concur that the the Group linked to the overstatement of expected profits completed a range of procedures including: accounting and disclosures in 2014 which may result in legal exposures.
in relation to the ongoing assessing the design and implementation of controls in UK shareholder actions Additionally, the Group has other ongoing legal matters relation to the monitoring of known exposures: are appropriate.
relating to previous corporate transactions which require reading Board and other meeting minutes to identify areas management judgement to be applied in order to subject to Group consideration: In relation to other determine the likely outcome.
meeting with the Groups internal legal advisors in understanding ongoing legal matters ongoing and potential legal matters impacting the Group: in respect of previous Judgement is required in assessing the nature of these reviewing third party correspondence and reports: and corporate transactions, exposures and their accounting and disclosure requirements.
reviewing the proposed accounting and disclosure of actual we are satisfied no specific and potential legal liabilities, drawing on third party assessment disclosure is required.
The Audit Committees discussion of this key audit matter of open matters.
70 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Presentation of the Groups income statement One of the Groups key performance indicators is Group In order to address this key audit matter we have completed We note that consistent operating profit before exceptional items.
The key audit audit procedures including: with other businesses of matter is that Group management may override the Groups a similar scale to the Group, assessing the design and implementation of controls which accounting policy application guidance to manipulate this key there are non-recurring address the risk of inappropriate presentation of the Groups performance indicator.
income and expense items income statement, such as the entity level controls which included within profit Management judgement is required when applying this underpin the overall control environment for the Group and before exceptional items accounting policy and when determining classification within specific controls over determining the presentation of which do not meet the the Groups income statement and assessing the Groups exceptional items: Groups definition of overall quality of earnings.
auditing key areas of management estimate and judgement, exceptional items and including consideration of exceptional items disclosed which largely offset.
We The Audit Committees discussion of this key audit matter by the Group and the existence of any further potential concur that these have is set out on page 42. exceptional items included within the Groups underlying been appropriately profit measures: and included within profit assessing transactions completed outside of the normal before exceptional items.
Retail technology environment, including IT security The Groups retail operations utilise a range of information We continued to challenge and assess changes to the IT Although managements systems.
In 2015 16 and 2016 17 we reported deficiencies in environments through the testing of remediated controls remediation plan is designed certain IT controls.
These deficiencies could have an adverse and concluding on the sufficiency and appropriateness of to address our concerns, impact on the Groups controls and financial reporting systems.
given the complexity of the underlying systems the As described on page 41 within the Audit Committee report, During the year we have assessed the design and implementation plan is a multi-year the Group is continuing the replacement of a number of the of the Groups controls over the information systems that are programme and not yet Groups key systems and making changes to key elements of the important to financial reporting, including the changes made complete, and therefore Groups IT infrastructure to address the identified deficiencies.
as part of the Groups replacement programme.
weaknesses remain in the control environment.
Consistent with 2016 17, in 2017 18 we were not able to take a control reliant audit approach due to the ongoing weaknesses We note that in the IT environment.
managements actions have reduced the number Where we noted deficiencies which affected applications of deficiencies in the year and databases within the scope of our audit, we extended relating to user access and the scope of our substantive audit procedures.
change management controls linked to the Groups financial reporting.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 71 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC continued Our application of materiality on 7 significant retail locations UK, Republic of Ireland, Czech Republic, We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and Thailand and Tesco Bank.
The operations statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a in Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia are managed as one combined reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
All of these were subject to a full audit and represent 96% 2016 17: use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating 97% of the Groups revenue and 92% 2016 17: 91% of net assets.
In addition, 4 other businesses Malaysia, OneStop, dunnhumby and Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Tesco Mobile were subject to specific audit procedures on material account financial statements as a whole as follows: balances, where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups Group financial Parent company statements financial statements operations at those locations.
The four locations accounted for 4% 2016 17: 2% of the Groups revenue and 7% 2016 17: 6% of net assets.
Materiality 50m 2016 17: 50m 35m 2016 17: 25m Basis for In determining our materiality, Materiality represents In 2016 17, Malaysia was a full scope audit, however in the current year determining we have considered the 2016 17 less than 1% is subject to specific audit procedures, as a result of only certain materiality materiality, profit based measures 2016 17: less than 1% financial statement lines being considered to be significant in the context and other measures.
Additionally, in 2016 17 Turkey was subject to specific audit Materiality has been determined procedures, however is no longer in scope following the Group disposing to be the same value as the 2016 17 of the business on 1 March 2017.
At the Parent entity level we also tested the materiality.
The materiality of 50m consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our equates to 4.4% of profit before tax conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of before exceptional items 1,143m.
the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not Component materiality has been subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
determined with reference to the components contribution to the The most significant component of the Group is its retail business in the UK.
The materiality As such, there is extensive interaction between the Group and UK audit team applied by the component auditors to ensure an appropriate level of involvement in this audit work.
During the was 20m, except for UK Retail course of our audit, the UK audit team visited 50 2016 17: 50 retail stores 2017 18: 35m, 2016 17: 25m and in the UK to attend either inventory counts or in order to complete store Thailand 2017 18: 25m, 2016 17: 25m.
control visits, and 4 2016 17: 6 distribution centre inventory counts.
Rationale The decision to maintain the same level As this is the Parent for the of materiality as that used in 2016 17 is Company of the Group We visited 7 2016 17: 7 of the 8 2016 17: 9 significant locations set benchmark reflective of the fact the Group it does not generate out above, in addition to the Groups shared service centre in Bengaluru, applied continues to execute its turnaround significant revenues with the Group Audit Partner visiting 4 2016 17: 4 of these locations.
but instead incurs We also had a dedicated audit partner focused on overseeing the role costs and as such The selected materiality is 4.4% of profit of the component audit teams located outside of the UK and the Republic net assets are an before tax before exceptional items, of Ireland, ensuring that we applied a consistent audit approach to the appropriate base which falls within a reasonable range, and operations in the Groups international business.
to use to determine supports the quantum of materiality.
The audit visits by the Group audit team were timed to enable us to be Profit before tax before exceptional involved during the planning and risk assessment process in addition to items is an appropriate metric since it during the completion of detailed audit procedures.
During our visits, is a key performance indicator and is not we attended key meetings with component management and auditors, impacted by any potential volatility which and reviewed detailed component auditor work papers.
may be caused by exceptional items.
The materiality selected represents In addition, all key component audit teams were represented during 0.5% 2016 17: 0.8% of the Groups a centralised two-day planning meeting held in the UK prior to the net assets.
commencement of our detailed audit work.
The purpose of this planning meeting was to ensure a good level of understanding of the Groups Group materiality 50m businesses, its core strategy and a discussion of the significant risks and workshops on our planned audit approach.
Group management also 2017 18 attended part of the meeting to support these planning activities.
Component materiality UK 35m profit before tax and Other information Component materiality Thailand 25m exceptional The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other Component materiality Other 20m items 1,143m information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Reporting threshold 2.5m Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Audit information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our Committee all audit differences in excess of 2.5m 2016 17: 2.5m for report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
the Group and the Parent Company, as well as differences below that In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group has subsidiary misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the grocery retail operations in eight countries, together with interests in other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude a number of other businesses both in the UK and internationally.
that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are The Groups accounting process is structured around local finance functions required to report that fact.
and is further supported by a shared service centre in Bengaluru, India which provides accounting and administrative support for the Groups core retail operations.
Each local finance function reports into the central Group finance function based at the Groups head office.
Based on our assessment of the Group, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work 72 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial statements In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as Report on other legal and regulatory requirements uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 we conclude that: In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or is consistent with the financial statements: and Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated accordance with applicable legal requirements.
by us to the Audit Committee: or In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate or the Directors report.
Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a Matters on which we are required to report by exception departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
in our opinion: Responsibilities of Directors we have not received all the information and explanations we require As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the for our audit: or Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the not visited by us: or preparation of financial statements that are free from material the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial accounting records and returns.
statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern Directors remuneration basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made alternative but to do so.
or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes Other matters our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a Auditor tenure guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from by the Groups shareholders on 26 June 2015 to audit the financial statements fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, for the year ended 27 February 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
reappointments of the firm is 3 years, covering financial years ending 27 February 2016 to 24 February 2018.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: Consistency of the audit report with the additional report www.
This description forms part of to the audit committee our auditors report.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Panos Kakoullis Senior statutory auditor accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members Statutory Auditor those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for London, United Kingdom no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept 10 April, 2018 or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 73
