Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS REPORT OFTHOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Our opinion Basis for opinion In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under Thomas Cook Group plcs Group financial statements and parent those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for company financial statements the financial statements give a true the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys independent of the Group and Company in accordance with the ethical affairs as at 30 September 2018 and of the Groups loss for the year requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements then ended: in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS inaccordance with these requirements.
asadopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied andappropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the andviability statement requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to What we have audited you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 58 to 61 that of Thomas Cook Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2018 describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed which comprise: or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 76 in the Annual Report that Group Parent company they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing Group income statement for the year Company balance sheet as at the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, thenended 30September 2018 future performance, solvency or liquidity: Group statement of comprehensive Company cash flow statement for the the Directors statement set out on page 76 in the financial statements income for the year then ended yearthen ended about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going Group cash flow statement for the Company statement of changes in equity concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification yearthen ended for the year then ended of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so Group balance sheet as at Related Notes 1 to 20 to the financial over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of 30September2018 statements including a summary of the financial statements: significant accounting policies whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required Group statement of changes in equity under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is forthe year then ended materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Related Notes 1 to 34 to the financial the Directors explanation set out on page 57 in the Annual Report as statements, including a summary of to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what significant accounting policies period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. qualifications or assumptions.
110 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview of our audit approach Understanding We have built a pan European audit team with experience of large multinational audits and industry expertise in hospitality, retail and airlines.
Building upon Thomas Cooks the knowledge and information we have obtained in our first year audit of last year we updated our understanding of the Groups strategy, business model business andoperating environment.
This was achieved through enquiry, analytical procedures, observation and visiting a number of the Groups operating units.
We performed risk assessment procedures including monthly meetings with management, our observations from prior year, half year and interim work toidentify risks of material misstatements.
Following the pre-close trading update issued by management we have updated our risk assessment and response, the details of which have been included inthe key matters section below.
Materiality When we established our audit strategy, we determined our overall materiality for the Group financial statements.
In doing so we considered which measure aligns best with the expectations of those charged with governance and the users of the financial statements.
We revised our Overall Group materiality, subsequent to managements trading update on 24 September 2018, to 14m which represents approximately 5%offorecast underlying profit from operations.
Audit scope Our scope is tailored to the particular circumstances and structure of the Group and is designed to cover components that are significant for the purposes offorming our group audit opinion and respond to the risk of material misstatement of the Group financial statements.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 20 FY17: 20 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 18 FY17: 17 components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 85% FY17: 86% of revenue and 86% FY17: 86% of underlying operatingcosts.
The components subject to review scope procedures covered the remaining 15% FY17: 14% of revenue and 14% FY17: 14% of underlying operating costs.
Key audit We have identified the following key audit matters that, in our professional judgement, had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation matters ofresources in the audit and in directing the component audit teams efforts.
Classification of separately disclosed items.
Going concern basis used in preparation of the Annual Report & Accounts.
Revenue recognition due to the susceptibility to management override through inappropriate manual journals.
Provision for illness claims and associated recoveries from suppliers.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing theefforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated totheAudit Committee Classification of separately disclosed items 179m, FY17: 140m Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 79 : Accounting policies page 130 : and Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 137 The Group separately discloses items in the In response to the revision of the risk assessment we increased the level of audit We challenged management on the income statement that are considered material partner and director involvement in assessing separately disclosed items, and increased items included initially in separately either because of their size or their nature, their participation in component audit team work.
We also added an elementof disclosed items and requested that or which are non-recurring.
Management unpredictability in our scope of testing by testing amounts included incomponents a number of adjustments be made to considers that separate reporting helps where we did not originally plan to test.
comply with theGroups accounting provide a full understanding of the Groups policy.
We obtained evidence of the separately disclosed items to understand the rationalefor performance.
Underlying EBIT which excludes the separate classification and have challenged the appropriateness by confirming they In light of our audit findings, the separately disclosed items forms part of the are in line with the Groups accounting policy i. e. material ornon-recurring to warrant guidelines published by ESMA and the basis for determining the Groups compliance separate disclosure.
FRCs thematic review we communicated with key banking covenants.
We compared separately disclosed costs incurred with the budgets approved by to the Audit Committee that we had Separately disclosed items are not defined by theBoard.
We have also assessed consistency with the nature of separately disclosed strongly recommended to management IFRS and therefore considerable judgement is items reported in the prior year.
that they strengthen the process required in determining the appropriateness We confirmed that the related tax on separately disclosed items over the identification and approval of of such classification.
treated as separately disclosed is important We reviewed the enhanced disclosures relating to items classified as separately There is significant judgement in tomaintain comparability of reporting disclosed and concluded that they provide further transparency on the nature of determining the appropriate type of year-on-year.
This, in turn, provides clarity on those items excluded from underlying items to exclude in assessing the performance of the Group.
Following the trading update on 24 September Groups underlying performance 2018 and our reassessment of audit materiality and therefore fair, balanced and we revised our risk assessment to include understandable disclosure of separately the risk of management override through the disclosed items is important for the inappropriate use of manual journals.
users of the financial statements in order for them to make this assessment.
111 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC CONTINUED Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated totheAudit Committee Going concern basis used in preparation of the Annual Report & Accounts Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 79 : and Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 124 The Groups Annual Report & Accounts are Following the trading updates on 24 September 2018 and 27 November 2018 and We have assessed that the severe prepared on the going concern basis of observation of subsequently revised covenant compliance forecasts we have increased but plausible scenarios identified by accounting.
This basis is dependent on a the amount of audit partner and director involvement in the following procedures and management are reasonable.
number of factors, including the Groups have used corporate finance specialists in assessing the adequacy ofthe managements We conclude that the use of the trading results, the Groups continued access sensitives and covenant headroom.
going concern basis of accounting to bank borrowing facilities and the Groups We obtained the cash flow and covenant forecasts and sensitivities prepared by is appropriate and concur with the ability to continue to operate within its management and assessed the calculation of headroom in respect of the banking directors that no significant uncertainty financial covenants.
The Groups borrowing facilities are subject We assessed the reasonableness of managements business plans and to financial covenants tested quarterly on appropriateness of the inputs and key assumptions used in the forecasts.
These consist of a We considered the accuracy of prior year forecasts against actual results to assess the leverage covenant and a fixed charge covenant.
accuracy of managements forecasting process.
We performed independent sensitivities to assess whether the headroom calculations The leverage covenant is a measure of profit are reasonable.
before separately disclosed items as disclosed We obtained evidence of the agreements obtained from lenders confirming in the financial statements, interest, tax, thecovenant resets for the first two quarters of FY19 and FY20.
depreciation, amortisation, aircraft operating We met with the Companys legal advisers and reviewed their advice to the Company lease rentals and other exceptional items in relation to the calculations of financial covenants and satisfied ourselves on the which the Company determines are material conclusions drawn by the directors from that advice.
and of an unusual or non-recurring nature We obtained the Companys forecast liquidity for the next 12 months noting compared to net debt.
theheadroom that is forecast on a monthly basis.
The fixed charge covenant is a measure of profit before separately disclosed items as disclosed in the financial statements interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, operating lease charges and other exceptional items which the Company determines are material and of an unusual or non-recurring nature compared to net interest and operating lease charges During the year, the Group received agreement from Lenders to reset the leverage covenants for the first two quarters of FY19 and FY20respectively in order to secure additionalheadroom.
Covenants in the last two quarters of FY19 remain tight, but pass under managements severe but plausible scenarios.
Revenue recognition due to the susceptibility to management override through inappropriate manual journals 9,584m, FY17: 9,007m Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 79 : Accounting policies page 130 : and Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 133 The accounting for revenue is susceptible to Our procedures specifically designed to address the risk of management override Our journal entry and data analytic management override through the recording ofcontrols included journal entry testing, placing particular focus on manual journal testing procedures did not identify any of manual, top side journal entries either entries in revenue.
instances of inappropriate management intheunderlying ledgers or via consolidation.
override in the recognition of revenue For a number of reporting unit revenue streams, we also used data analysis tools on across theGroup.
100% of revenue journal entries in the year.
These tools test the flow of journal data from revenue through to cash receipt to verify the occurrence of revenue and identify and test Based on the audit procedures anomaly journals.
performed we did not identify evidence of material misstatements in the We also assessed the design of key controls, and where appropriate, tested revenue recognised in the current year.
theoperating effectiveness of controls over revenue and the financial statement closeprocess.
We consider the revenue recognition policies applied and judgements made In addition, as part of our overall revenue recognition testing: tobeappropriate.
For those in-scope businesses and revenue streams where we did not use data analysis tools, we performed alternative substantive procedures over revenue recognition including tests of details for a sample of revenue transactions.
We understood the Groups revenue recognition policies and how they are applied including continued assessment of the appropriateness of managements judgement in determining whether the Group is acting as principal or agent in concluding the appropriate accounting treatment for each revenue stream.
We performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue transactions around theperiodend date.
112 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated totheAudit Committee Leased aircraft maintenance provisions 378m, FY17: 366m Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 79 : Accounting policies page 132 : and Note 25 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 159 The Group recognises provisions for We have evaluated the methodology and key assumptions adopted by management inits We concluded the assumptions maintenance obligations in relation to calculation of aircraft maintenance provisions and walked through the controls over the within themodels used to calculate leased aircraft.
The calculation of aircraft process.
This involved the following procedures: the provision, including the discount maintenance provisions requires complex rate, asat30September 2018 were Understanding the process and testing the arithmetical accuracy and integrity judgements and estimates to be made based appropriate and supported by underlying ofthedata in the provision models.
on forecast aircraft utilisation, estimates of evidence.
Challenging the consistency and reasonableness of the assumptions adopted.
future maintenance costs, planned rollover Thisincluded a review of discount rates, testing of source data in the model and renewal of the aircraft fleet.
Inaddition toinformation from lessors and comparison of assumptions to contract terms.
judgement is required to determine the Testing the cost estimates of future maintenance events to the latest rate reviews appropriate rate at which to discount incontracts, tenders or historical cost experience.
For the timing of future maintenance, we corroborated the maintenance interval limits to the manufacturers information and tested the actual flight hours to the technical logs and the forecast flying hours to the forecast flying hour plans.
We have tested the completeness of the provisions by comparison to fleet and financing registers and reviewing lease agreements for hand back obligations.
We assessed the discount rate applied to the provision.
Using our valuation specialists, we determined the appropriate rate to be applied to this provision byreference to IFRSguidance in this area.
Customer claim recoveries and provisions Recoveries from suppliers 11m, FY17: 21m: Illness provision 18m, FY17: 24m Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 79 : Accounting policies page 132 : and Note 25 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 159 There has been a significant decrease yearIn respect of recoveries we have: Management made adjustments which on-year in the number of illness related claims ensured that there was appropriate Challenged whether appropriate evidence exists to support the recognition of recovery from customers in the UK following media evidence to support the recoveries from assets, such as acknowledgement from a hotel that they were at fault and intend to coverage of false claims and criminal cases.
suppliers on the balance sheet at the reimburse the Group, or a signed agreement in place in relation to that claim.
However, there remains a significant risk in Challenged how the amount recognised will be recovered by seeking evidence that assessing expected recoveries from suppliers signed contracts are in place with hoteliers.
In instances where signed contracts were Our procedures also did not identify any in respect of historical claims.
Judgement is not available or where the recovery is with parties that are not hotels we havesought material misstatement of provisions required to assess whether recovery of costs is additional evidence such as the evidence of the right and history for illness claims and the assumptions either probable or virtually certain.
In addition, of auto-recovering amounts from supplier invoice payments.
in the underlying calculations were the estimate of the probable amount that will be assessed asreasonable.
We have also evaluated the methodology and key assumptions adopted by management received from the supplier is inherently uncertain.
in its calculation of provision for illness claims and walked through thecontrols over the Additionally, there is judgement in process.
This included: determining the level of provision for new Challenging the consistency and reasonableness of the assumptions adopted.
claims, particularly in respect of underlying Testing the arithmetical accuracy and integrity of the data in the provision models.
assumptions such as the total amount of Testing manual adjustments to provisions to understand their rationale and ensure potential compensation, probable amount to be that they are appropriate.
settled in respect of claims, and the likelihood of having a valid defence against such claims.
Carrying value of goodwill 2,585m, FY17: 2,627m Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 79 : Accounting policies page 127 : and Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 142 The Group holds significant goodwill on We understood the methodology applied by management in performing its impairment We agreed with managements the balance sheet.
The Groups business test for each of the relevant Cash Generating Units CGUs.
conclusion that no impairments were isgeographically diverse and the changing required, based on the results of our We performed detailed testing to assess critically and corroborate the key inputs tothe geopolitical environmental and economic work.
valuations, including: landscape will continue to influence business Of the Groups goodwill, that relating Analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual results to determine performance and could impact the carrying to the UK CGU is most sensitive to whetherforecast cash flows are reliable based on past experience.
reasonable possible changes in key Working with our internal specialists, corroborating the discount rate used by obtaining The annual impairment test of goodwill assumptions.
the underlying data used in the calculation and benchmarking it against market data includes several key areas of estimation and Sensitivities have been disclosed in the and comparable organisations.
judgement over the future performance of Intangible assets note to the Group Validating the growth rates assumed by comparing them to economic and the business and specific assumptions such financial statements as management industryforecasts.
as discount rates and terminal growth rates.
believe a reasonable change in Changes to these assumptions or adverse For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which the key inputs and assumptions would assumptions could cause an impairment performance could have a significant impact need to fluctuate before an impairment was triggered and considered the likelihood in the UK CGU.
We consider the on the available headroom and any impairment of this occurring.
We performed our own sensitivities on the Groups forecasts and disclosures made to be appropriate.
determined whether adequate headroom remained.
We assessed the disclosures in Note 12 against the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, in particular in respect of the requirement to disclose further sensitivities for CGUs where a reasonably possible change in a key assumption would cause animpairment.
The audit procedures performed to address this risk were performed by the Group audit team.
113 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC CONTINUED Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated totheAudit Committee Recoverability of deferred tax assets 117m, FY17: 216m Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 79 : Accounting policies page 131 : and Note 24 of the Consolidated Financial Statements page 158 Management applies judgement in assessing We performed detailed testing to assess the recoverability of deferred tax asset We have considered the recognition the recognition and recoverability of the recognised which included: periodover which deferred tax assets deferred tax assets.
This assessment is willbe recovered and concluded they Testing managements process to prepare the deferred tax calculations.
performed for each jurisdiction based werereasonable.
Assessing the period over which deferred tax assets will be utilised and corroborating theapplication of tax law, the likelihood to supporting forecasts of future taxable profits: We concur with the basis of recognition oftaxableprofits arising in future periods Testing adjustments made to forecast profits required to assess the level of forecast due to supporting taxable profit andtherefore the likelihood that the tax assets taxable profits available to support the recoverability of the deferred tax asset.
Audited individual transactions that gave rise to additional deferred tax assets recognised or utilised during the year.
The key audit matters as set out in the table above differ from those We determined parent company materiality to be 29m FY17: 28m, reported in the prior year, due to inclusion of the going concern which is 1% FY17: 1% of equity.
matter, which was one of the matters that had greatest impact on the Performance materiality allocation of partner time.
During the course of preparing the financial The application of materiality at the individual account or balance statements in the current year the Company identified a prior year level.
Itis set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level adjustment which has been adjusted and is disclosed in Note 33 to the the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected financial statements.
In the course of our audit we have confirmed the misstatements exceeds materiality.
appropriateness of the adjustment made.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment Our application of materiality of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, performance materiality was 50% FY17: 50% of our planning materiality, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in namely 7.0m FY17: 7.5m, reflecting our expectation of audit differences.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining Materiality audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic The performance materiality set for each component is based on decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole abasis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
and our assessment ofthe risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, therange of performance materiality allocated to We determined materiality for the Group to be 14m FY17: 15m, components was 0.7m to3.5m FY17: 1.0m to 3.8m.
which is 5% FY17: 5% of forecast underlying profit from operations.
We believe that forecast underlying profit from operations is the most Reporting threshold relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the Group as it An amount below which identified misstatements are considered is akey input for banking covenants, management bonus amounts and asbeing clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.70m FY17: 0.75m, which Starting basis Adjustments Materiality is set at 5% FY17: 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on Forecast Less amortisation of Forecast underlying qualitative grounds.
Underlying business combination profit from We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the profit from intangibles of 8m operations excluding operations seeNote 7 to the amortisation quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light 280m financial statements of business ofother relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
combination intangibles of 272m AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT basis for materiality Materiality of 14m Tailoring the scope 5% of materiality Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our basis allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope foreachentity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables We reassessed initial materiality set at the planning stage after the us toforman opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
revision of management forecasts following the 24 September 2018 In determining ouraudit scope, we take into account: trading update.
After the pre-close update on 27 November 2018 we size based on contribution to Group underlying profit from operations consider that this materiality has remained appropriate as we carried and Group revenue : out audit procedures on the adjustments to the financial statements that give rise to the final result.
114 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 risk profile including country risk, risks from the complexity For the consolidation entry components we tested consolidation ofoperations and accounting treatment and judgements, controls journals and intercompany eliminations.
findings and risk arising from change in the period including changes Changes from the prior year to IT systems and key management personnel : One component that was previously a specific scope component and the number of significant accounts based on performance materiality: is now a review scope component as the business was sold during and the period.
There are no other substantive changes in scope from any other known factors when assessing the level of work to be theprior year.
The Group structures its financial reporting consolidation with a Involvement with component teams head office level consolidation of 120 FY17: 115 components.
Of the In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined head office level components 82 FY17: 79 relate to consolidation entry the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components.
In addition, 3 FY17: 3 of the head office components relate components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by to tour operator sub-consolidations which are performed locally in UK, component auditors including those from other EY global network Continental Europe and Northern Europe with a total of 135 FY17: 125 firms operating under our instruction.
Of the 20 FY17: 20 full scope sub-components.
Of the sub-consolidation components 28 FY17: 28 components, audit procedures were performed on 2 FY17: 2 of these relate to consolidation entry components.
This results in 35 FY17: 33 directly by the primary audit engagement team, 18 FY17: 17 by component reporting components at the head office consolidation level and auditors of the EY global network.
In FY17 one audit was performed by 107 FY17: 97 reporting components at the sub-consolidation level.
For the components, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level Our approach to scoping has been at the head office consolidation level: of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence however, the Group team also directs the sub-scoping in each of the had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
three tour operator sub-consolidations to enable us to obtain sufficient audit evidence as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
During the current years audit cycle, the Senior Statutory Auditor of the primary audit engagement team visited the component teams in UK Tour In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial Operator, Northern Europe Tour Operator and UK Airline.
A senior primary statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of audit engagement team member visited the Continental Europe Tour significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 142 FY17: 130 Operator and Condor Airline component teams.
In addition to our visits, reporting components of the Group, we selected 38 FY17: 37 which the Senior Statutory Auditor and other members of the Group team represent the principal components within the Group.
These components attended the year end closing meetings with local management.
were audited by 13 FY17: 12 overseas EY component teams, 2 FY17: 2 UK component teams and the primary audit engagement team.
In FY17 These visits involved meeting with our component team to discuss and we also used one non-EY component auditor to perform full scope direct the audit approach, reviewing and understanding the significant procedures over one sub-component.
audit findings in response to the risk areas including the presentation of separately disclosed items, leased aircraft maintenance provisions, Of the 38 FY17: 37 components selected, we performed an audit of hotel recoveries and associated illness claims and revenue recognition, the complete financial information of 20 FY17: 20 components full holding meetings with local management and obtaining updates on scope components which were selected based on their size or risk local regulatory matters.
The primary audit engagement team interacted characteristics.
For the remaining 18 FY17: 17 components specific regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various scope components, we performed audit procedures on the specific stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to testing coverage of financial statement line items OTHER INFORMATION in the Group financial statements.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report including the Overview, the Strategic Report and the Directors The full and specific scope reporting components where we performed Report set out on pages 1 to 109, other than the financial statements audit procedures accounted for 85% FY17: 86% of the Groups revenue and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for and 86% FY17: 86% of the Groups total underlying operating costs.
Of the remaining 104 FY17: 93 reporting components that together Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other represent 14% FY17: 15% of the Groups revenue and 14% FY17:14% of the information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this Groups total underlying operating costs, none are individually greater report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
than 2% FY17: 2% of the Groups revenue or individually greater than 3% FY17: 5% of the Groups total underlying operating costs.
For these In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our components, we performed other procedures, including analytical responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, review, review of the legal register and discussions with the inconsider whether the other information is materially inconsistent house legal counsel and testing of unusual or one-off transactions to with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify financial statements.
such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, 115 Financial statements Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC CONTINUED wearerequired to determine whether there is a material misstatement Matters on which we are required to report by exception in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we thatthere is a material misstatement of the other information, have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our inour opinion: responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent the other information where we conclude that those items meet the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received following conditions: from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 77 the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report accounting records and returns: or & Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess made: or the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially we have not received all the information and explanations we require inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or for our audit.
Audit committee reporting set out on page 78 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately Responsibilities of Directors address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate out on page 77, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Governance Code set out on page 62 the parts of the Directors financial statements and for being satisfied that give a true and fair view statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys in accordance, and for such internal control as the Directors determine compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from arelevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Companys ability to continue as a going Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and Act2006 using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be intends to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies orhas no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: statements the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, isconsistent with the financial statements: and whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, accordance with applicable legal requirements.
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
116 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud https: www.
This description forms The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and part of our auditors report.
assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding Other matters we are required to address the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appointed by the Company on 9 February 2017 to audit the financial appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
statements for the year ending 30 September 2017 and subsequent However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection financial periods.
of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous and management.
renewals and reappointments is two years, covering the years ending 30 September 2017 to 30 September 2018.
Our approach was as follows: The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks not provided to the Group or the Company and we remain independent that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most of the Group and the Company in conducting the audit.
significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to committee explaining the results of our audit.
the reporting framework IFRS, the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance Use of our report regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
In addition, This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. which may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them UK Listing Authority, and those regulations relating to health and safety in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent and employee matters.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone We understood how Thomas Cook Group plc is complying with those other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for frameworks by making enquiries of management, enterprise risk and our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the Group legal counsel.
We corroborated our enquiries through RICHARD WILSON ourreview of board minutes, papers provided to the Audit Committee SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR and Board and correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements London tomaterial misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered covenant thresholds and performance targets and their 28 November 2018 influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of analysts.
We considered the programs Notes: and controls that the Group has established to address risks identified, 1.
T he maintenance and integrity of the Thomas Cook Group plc website is the responsibility of the or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters management monitors those programs and controls.
Where the and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred tothe financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures 2.
L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
assessing the appropriateness of presentation of separately disclosed items and testing manual journals.
These procedures were designed toprovide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures toidentify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified inthe paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of legal counsel, group management, enterprise risk and internal audit, segment management and management atfulland specific scope entities: and focused testing, as referred tointhe key audit matters section above.
