Independent Auditors report to the members of TI Fluid Systems plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, TI Fluid Systems plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profitand the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2018: the consolidated income statement and statements of comprehensive income, the consolidated and Company statements of cash flows, and the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit & Risk Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in Note 30 to the financial statements, we have not provided any other non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 10.5 million 2017: 11.0 million, based on 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items.
Overall Company materiality: 8.9 million 2017: 8.9 million, based on 1% of net assets.
Materiality There are no significant components within the Group: We performed full scope audit work on 15 components 2017: 15 components and specified procedures over certain balances on eight components 2017: eight.
Areas that are centralised in the corporate office Audit in the US and head office in the UK have been audited by the Group audit team: and scope This provided coverage of 70% 2017: 66% for revenue, 67% 2017: 61% for operating profit, and 75% 2017: 82% for net assets.
Warranty provision Group and components.
Key audit matters Deferred tax asset recognition and provision for uncertain tax positions Group and components Goodwill and intangible assets impairment Group.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 68 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to the UK Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to component teams, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to management bias in relation to judgements and estimates.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors included: Discussions with management, internal audit and the Groups legal counsel, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud: challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to warranty provision see related key audit matter below : Reading the minutes of the board meetings and Audit & Risk Committee meetings: Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to their assessment of impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, warranty provision and deferred tax asset recognition and provision for uncertain tax provisions see related key audit matters below : identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account combinations or posted by senior management: We identified and on a sample basis tested journal entries based on specific risk criteria.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the Auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the Auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Independent Auditors report to the members of TI Fluid Systems plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Warranty provision We focussed on the judgements made by management in assessing the Refer to the Audit & Risk Committee report on page likelihood and quantification of material exposures.
Our procedures, at a 49, Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Group and component level, were designed to ensure reasonableness of the Policies and Note 27 Provisions.
warranty provision and included: Understanding the nature of the specific claims through discussions with management and review of correspondence with the customers: The Group is exposed to warranty claims in the event Assessing managements evaluation of the likelihood and quantum of that its products fail to perform as per specifications.
exposure which is based on the terms of the contract with the customer, Warranty provisions are made to cover potential the underlying issue with the relevant product and the status of negotiations exposures that relate to specific customer claims.
with the customer: The warranty provision at 31 December 2018 to cover Discussions with senior Group and divisional executives and personnel potential exposures on existing claims is 18.4 million involved in the negotiation of the specific issues and making enquiries to 2017: 19.8 million.
ensure all material open issues have been assessed for warranty provisions: Reviewing internal management reporting to ensure all material open issues As the settlement of specific issues is dependent on have been considered for completeness for warranty provisions: the customer, the complexity of the issue and the Discussions with Executive Directors to understand the status of negotiation process, the outcome of claims is often negotiations on the specific issues: and difficult to predict and quantify.
Due to this, warranty Challenging management and the Executive Directors on the provisions involve significant judgement.
reasonableness of the warranty provision based on information available and evaluating possible scenarios of settlement of the issues.
Based on the work performed the warranty provisions are reasonable in the context of the status of the open claims.
Deferred tax asset recognition and provision In conjunction with our tax specialists, we evaluated and challenged foruncertain tax positions managements judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures to Refer to the Audit & Risk Committee report on page assess the reasonableness of the Groups tax provisions.
This included 50, Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting obtaining and evaluating certain third party tax opinions that the Group has Policies and Note 12 Income Tax.
obtained to assess the appropriateness of any assumptions used.
The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, we considered subject to tax laws in a number of jurisdictions.
The recent correspondence with relevant tax authorities, complexity and Group has recognised provisions against uncertain developments in the tax environment in the relevant territories and positions tax positions, the valuation of which is an inherently taken by the Group in the tax returns.
We assessed the appropriateness of judgemental area.
At 31 December 2018, the Group provisions recorded in the financial statements, or the rationale for not has recorded provisions of 34.7 million in respect recording a provision, by using our specialist tax knowledge, reading the of uncertain tax positions 2017: 44.1 million.
latest correspondence between the Group and the various tax authorities and advisors.
At 31 December 2018, the Group has recognised 34.9 million 2017: 51.0 million of deferred tax These procedures assisted in our corroboration of managements position assets on the balance sheet, the recognition of which in respect of significant tax exposures, and with our assessment that the involves judgement and estimates by management disclosures and provisions recorded in the financial statements, including as to the likelihood of their realisation.
The expectation whether any provisions sufficiently addressed probable penalties and interest, that the benefit of the assets will be realised is were appropriate and reflected the latest developments in the reporting dependent on a number of factors including standards.
appropriate taxable temporary timing differences and whether there will be sufficient taxable profits We evaluated the Directors assessment as to whether there will be sufficient in future periods to support recognition.
taxable profits in future periods to support the recognition of deferred tax assets by evaluating the future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they were drawn up, including testing the underlying calculations and comparing the forecasts to historical performance.
Based on the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning for uncertain tax positions, recognition of deferred tax assets recognised and the related disclosures are acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 70 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Goodwill and intangible assets impairment We reviewed managements impairment model and focussed our audit on Refer to the Audit & Risk Committee report on page the key judgements and estimates.
Procedures performed included: 49, Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting In respect of the aggregation of CGUs, we confirmed that this is the lowest Policies and Note 14 Intangible Assets.
level at which management monitors goodwill for internal purposes and that it is consistent with the way in which the Groups results are reported to the Board, the chief operating decision maker and the Executive Team: The Group holds goodwill of 733.3 million 2017: Testing the underlying calculations in managements impairment model and 724.9 million and intangible assets of 496.5 million agreeing the cash flow forecasts to the latest medium term plan approved 2017: 549.0 million as at 31 December 2018. by the Board: Evaluating the reasonableness of forecast cash flows through discussions All cash generating units CGUs containing goodwill with management and assessing CGU specific cash flow assumptions by must be tested for impairment annually.
The considering historical accuracy: determination of CGUs and the recoverable amount Engaging our valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of discount requires judgement by management in both and long-term growth rates considering the risks specific to the geographies identifying and valuing the relevant CGUs.
and relevant industry of the CGUs being tested for impairment: Evaluating managements sensitivity analyses to ascertain the impact of There are judgements and estimates involved in reasonably possible changes in key assumptions and performing managements impairment review including cash independent sensitivity calculations to quantify the downside changes to flow forecasts, discount rates and long-term growth managements model required to result in impairment: and rates.
A change in these assumptions can result in Assessing the appropriateness of the related disclosures in Note 14. a material change in the valuation of the assets.
We noted no material exceptions and considered managements key assumptions supporting the asset values to be reasonable.
The related disclosures are deemed reasonable given the level of headroom across the CGUs.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group operates across four geographical territories of Europe, North America, Asia Pacific and Latin America and two divisions of Fluid Carrying Systems FCS and Fluid Tank Delivery Systems FTDS.
Each division consists of a large number of components spread across a number of countries.
Overall, the Group operates in 114 locations across 28 countries.
We did not identify any individually significant components within the Group.
We scoped our work to ensure that overall we have sufficient coverage to express the required opinion in compliance with applicable Auditing Standards.
We have revised the components in scope for a full-scope audit to ensure we cover components with specific risks and rotate the components in scope to cover a number of components over time.
We have performed full scope audits on the financial information of 15 components 2017: 15 components and specific audit procedures based on risk and materiality on the financial information of 8 components 2017: 8 components.
This is supplemented by analytical procedures across the remainder of the Group.
Areas that are centralised in the corporate office in the US and head office in the UK have been audited by the Group audit team.
The coverage for both the current and prior year is in compliance with auditing standards.
Our audit involves full scope audits of components in China, Korea, Germany, Belgium, Poland, Czech Republic, Spain and Turkey and specified procedures on the components in the US and Mexico.
Where component auditors performed work, we determined the appropriate level of involvement we needed to have in that audit work to ensure we could conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained for the Group financial statements as a whole.
We issued written instructions to all component auditors and had regular communications with them throughout the audit cycle.
The Group audit team maintained supervision and oversight of the local audit teams, which included review of reporting from the components that are in full scope audit and specified procedures.
This was supplemented with visits to US, China and Turkey and meetings with the component audit teams, participation in the clearance meetings with local management, and review of the component audit teams key working papers in these countries.
The Group audit team has performed the audit of the Company.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Independent Auditors report to the members of TI Fluid Systems plc continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 10.5 million 2017: 11.0 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for 1% of net assets exceptional items Rationale for benchmark applied Based on the benchmarks used in the There is no trading activity within the Annual Report, profit before tax adjusted Company and net assets is therefore an for exceptional items is the primary appropriate benchmark.
measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
Adjusting for exceptional items provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.5 million and 4.6 million 2017: 1.1 million and 5.2 million.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 525,000 Group audit 2017: 550,000 and 450,000 Company audit 2017: 450,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
draw attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the However, because not all future events or conditions can be financial statements about whether the Directors considered it predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
For example, preparing the financial statements and the Directors the terms on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and European Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of implications on the Groups and Companys trade, customers, the financial statements.
suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 72 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our Auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 21 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 32 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Independent Auditors report to the members of TI Fluid Systems plc continued Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 65, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 47 to 52 describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the Auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements set out on page 65, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 74 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 11 September 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is four years, covering the years ended 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2018.
Christopher Hibbs Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 19 March 2019 TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75
