Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 113 Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofTPICAP plc In our opinion: the financial statements of TP ICAP plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law the Consolidated Balance Sheet: and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the the related Consolidated Financial Statement Notes 1 to 37: preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable the Parent Company Balance Sheet: law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity: and Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted the related Parent Company Financial Statement Notes 1 to 10.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that, with one exception, no non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were provided to the Group.
The exception related to immaterial payroll and tax compliance services provided to the overseas branch of an insignificant newly acquired UK subsidiary.
The fees for this work amounted to 8,000 and these services have ceased.
It was concluded in agreement with the Audit Committee, this one exception did not impact upon Deloittes integrity, objectivity and independence as the number of employees and the payroll and tax charge within this subsidiary are wholly immaterial in the context of our audit of the Groups financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Name Passing revenue: Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles: and Presentation and disclosure of integration related items.
We no longer identify a key audit matter in relation to the finalisation of the provisional accounting for the ICAP acquisition as this was completed in the prior year.
In 2017, we identified a key audit matter in relation to the presentation and disclosure of Cost Improvement Program CIP and integration related items.
There is no 2018 CIP and therefore, in the current year, our key audit matter focuses solely on integration related items.
The other key audit matters are consistent with the prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 10.2m which was determined with reference to underlying profit before tax.
Scoping Our Group audit scope focused primarily on seven locations 2017: eight locations with 30 subsidiaries 2017: 30 subsidiaries subject to a full scope audit and three subsidiaries 2017: three subsidiaries subject to specified audit procedures.
In aggregate, these subsidiaries represent the principal business units within each of the Groups operating segments.
These subsidiaries account for 97% 2017: 99% of the Groups total assets, 99% 2017: 98% of the Groups total liabilities, 87% 2017: 88% of the Groups revenue and 87% 2017: 85% of the Groups expenses.
Significant changes There have been no significant changes to our audit approach compared to prior year.
com 114 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofTPICAP plc continued Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that We have reviewed the Directors statement in Note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate we have nothing to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the material to Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from report, add or the date of approval of the financial statements.
draw attention to in respect of We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where these matters.
relevant the potential impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluating the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that Principal risks and viability statement we have nothing Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we material to obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the report, add or Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything draw attention material to add or draw attention to in relation to: to in respect of these matters.
the disclosures on pages 40 to 43 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 40 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Name Passing revenue Refer to the summary of significant accounting policies on page 129 and Our business model on page 4.
Key audit matter Name Passing revenue is earned for the service of matching buyers and sellers of financial instruments.
description The Group is not a counterparty to the trade and commissions are invoiced for the service provided by the Group.
It accounts for a majority of the Groups broking revenue of 1,763m.
As invoices for services provided are not issued until the end of each month, the cash collection period is typically longer than for Matched Principal revenue.
The risk of misstatement of revenue due to fraud or error increases where the invoice becomes past due or where post year-end trade adjustments or credit notes arise.
How the scope of our We assessed the design and implementation of relevant controls relating to Name Passing invoicing and cash collection and audit responded to elected to test the operating effectiveness of controls in certain jurisdictions.
the key audit matter We confirmed a sample of trades to cash received throughout the year.
We agreed a further sample of Name Passing transactions, which were outstanding at year-end, to cash received post year-end.
We tested the aged debtor analysis through re-performance and, focusing on higher risk aged items, we confirmed that revenue recognised on each transaction was supportable by obtaining evidence to corroborate the validity of the underlying trade and reviewing communications with counterparties.
We tested a sample of post year-end trade adjustments and credit notes to evaluate whether these items were accurate and valid.
We reviewed the recognition of Name Passing revenue to assess whether it was in line with the Groups accounting policy.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 115 Key observations During 2018 the Group continued to implement improvements in controls over trade amendments.
As the improved controls did not operate for all broking desks, we performed additional substantive testing of trade amendments.
No issues were identified from this testing.
No issues were identified through our detailed testing of cash receipts and aged debtors.
We determined the recognition of Name Passing revenue to be appropriate and in line with the Groups accounting policy on page 129.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles Refer to the summary of significant accounting policies Note 3 on page 130, accounting estimates and judgements Note 3 on page 138, the intangible assets arising on consolidation Note 13 on page 146 and the other intangible assets Note 14 on page 147.
Key audit matter As required by IAS 36, goodwill and other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Determining description whether the goodwill of 1,030m, other intangible assets arising on consolidation of 564m and other intangible assets of 69m are impaired requires an estimation of the recoverable amount of the Groups cash generating units CGUs, using the higher of the value in use or fair value less costs to sell.
The value in use approach was used to assess the recoverable amount of all CGUs.
The value in use approach involves discounting expected future cash flows and hence requires the selection of suitable discount rates and forecast future growth rates.
It is therefore inherently subjective with an increased risk of material misstatement due to error or fraud.
The value in use of each CGU can be sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions.
We focused our testing on the CGUs where we identified increased sensitivity to the growth rate and discount rate assumptions.
An impairment of 58m was recorded in the year for the Americas CGU and an impairment of 7m was recorded in the year for the Asia Pacific CGU.
How the scope of our We performed detailed analysis of the Groups assumptions used in the annual impairment review, audit responded to in particular forecast future growth rates, the cash flow projections and discount rates used by the Group in its impairment tests the key audit matter of the CGUs.
We challenged cash flow forecasts and growth rates by evaluating recent performance, trend analysis and comparing growth rates to those achieved historically and to external market data where available.
Our internal valuations specialists independently derived discount rates which we compared to the rates used by the Group and we benchmarked discount rates to available external peer group data.
We re-performed the Groups assessment of whether the impairment tests were sensitive to reasonably possible changes in assumptions and cash flows to determine whether the Groups disclosures of sensitivities in the financial statements were sufficient and appropriate.
Key observations We concluded that the Directors impairment test and the recognition of an impairment charge in respect of the Americas and Asia Pacific CGUs was appropriate.
The cash flow forecasts used in the annual impairment review were consistent with the most recent financial budgets approved by the Board and were reasonable in the context of recent business performance.
We considered the potential impact of Brexit on cash flow forecasts and do not consider there to be a significant risk of material adjustment to the carrying value of the EMEA CGU in the next financial year as a result.
The growth rates and discount rates used by management are reasonable.
We considered the disclosures made by the Directors were appropriate, that when using a value in use approach, a reasonably possible change in the growth rate and discount rate assumptions for the Asia Pacific and Americas CGUs would result in the carrying value of these CGUs exceeding their recoverable amount.
Presentation and disclosure of integration related items Refer to the basis of preparation Note 2 on page 126 and Note 5 on page 142.
Key audit matter The Group reports profit before acquisition, disposal and integration related items of 160m before taxation of which description 44m related to integration.
There is a risk that items that reflect the underlying performance of the Group are incorrectly presented as integration related items.
In addition, there is a risk that undue prominence is given to underlying results compared to the statutory results of the Group.
How the scope of our We assessed the design and implementation of relevant controls relating to the classification of items as audit responded to integration related.
the key audit matter For a sample of items we obtained supporting evidence to assess whether the items relate to integration or should be presented as part of the Groups underlying results.
We challenged the prominence given to underlying results relative to the Groups statutory results and whether the presentation was misleading.
We read the description of the basis of underlying results and whether it was consistently applied.
We also tested the completeness and accuracy of the reconciliation between underlying and statutory results.
com 116 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofTPICAP plc continued Key observations We identified no items within integration related items that should be presented in underlying results or that did not meet the Groups definition of integration related items set out on page 126.
We considered that the presentation of the Groups underlying results is appropriately explained, is understandable and that the reconciliation to the Groups statutory results is complete and accurate.
We considered that appropriate prominence has been given to the statutory results.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 10.2m 2017: 9.6m Basis for determining We have used a purely profit based measure as a basis for determining materiality as we considered this to be the materiality and rationale most appropriate.
Our approach to determining materiality is consistent with the prior year.
for the benchmark applied For the 2018 Group Financial Statements, we have determined our materiality to be 10.2m on the basis of 5% of 1 normalised underlying profit before tax which equates to less than 1% of total equity.
Parent Company materiality 4.1m 2017: 4.8m Basis for determining For the 2018 Parent Company Financial Statements, we have determined our materiality to be 4.1m on the basis materiality and rationale of 40% of Group materiality because the Parent Company is a component in scope for our Group audit.
for the benchmark applied We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.5m 2017: 0.5m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit scope focused primarily on seven locations 2017: eight locations with 30 subsidiaries 2017: 30 subsidiaries subject to a full scope audit and three subsidiaries 2017: three subsidiaries subject to specified audit procedures.
The subsidiaries were selected to provide an appropriate basis of undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement including those identified above.
Our audits of each of the subsidiaries were performed using lower levels of materiality based on their size relative to the Group.
The materiality for each subsidiary audit ranged from 4.1m to 6.1m 2017: 4.8m to 5.3m.
Revenue Expenses Total assets Total liabilities Full scope 86% Full scope 78% Full scope 97% Full scope 99% Analytical procedures only 13% Analytical procedures only 13% Analytical procedures only 3% Analytical procedures only 1% We tested the Groups consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the aggregated financial information of the remaining subsidiaries not subject to a full scope audit or specified audit procedures.
The Senior Statutory Auditor has responsibility for directing and supervising all aspects of the audit work of the component auditors.
In discharging this responsibility, he visited the US and Singapore during the audit to meet local management and to oversee the audits of the subsidiaries based in the Americas and Asia Pacific.
The Group audit team performed a remote file review of the work performed by five other component auditors.
The Group audit team maintained dialogue with all component auditors throughout all phases of the audit and received written reports from component auditors setting out the results of their audit procedures.
1 We have determined normalised underlying profit before tax of 205m as underlying profit before tax of 245m less amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation of 40m.
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation is a recurring cost and therefore reflects ongoing business performance.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 specified audit procedures 1% specified audit procedures 9% specified audit procedures 0% specified audit procedures 0% Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 117 Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the We have nothing to Annual Report including the Strategic report and the Governance report, other than the financial statements and our report in respect of auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
com 118 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofTPICAP plc continued Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with provisions of laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit, and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with provisions of laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of noncompliance, including their assessment of open litigation and regulatory matters: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: and the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with provisions of laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team including significant component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, pensions and IT regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified increased fraud risks in the following areas which are referred to above: Name Passing revenue and impairment of goodwill and other intangibles: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on those provisions of laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006, Listing Rules, pensions legislation and tax legislation.
In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and regulations that do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern or to avoid a material penalty, such as prudential regulatory requirements.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified Name Passing revenue and the impairment of goodwill and other intangibles as key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to the key audit matters.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant provisions of laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house and external legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: and reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC and regulators, including the Financial Conduct Authority.
Where actual or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations was identified, we performed specific audit procedures to address the risk of material misstatement in the financial statements, including making direct enquiries of external legal counsel, reviewing relevant correspondence with the regulator or judiciary body and reviewing the disclosures in Note 24 and Note 33 of the financial statements.
In addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, we tested the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessed whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates were indicative of a potential bias: and evaluated the business rationale of any significant transactions that were unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified provisions of laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 119 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: toreport in respect ofthese matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration toreport in respect have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting ofthese matters.
Other matters Auditor tenure We were first appointed as auditors by a predecessor company of the Parent Company upon its listing in 2001.
We were appointed to audit its financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2001 and subsequent periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 18 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2001 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Robert Topley FCA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 19 March 2019 www.
