qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 54 We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit s These matters were addressed, and our results are b Independent DXGLWRUV UHSRUW to the members of TR Property Investment Trust plc We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 2 1.
Our opinion is unmodified November 2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the two financial years ended 31 We have audited the financial statements of TR March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities 3URSHUW, QYHVWPHQW 7UXVW SOF pWKH &RPSDQ q IRU under, and we remain independent of the Group in the year ended 31 March 2018 which comprise the accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest and Company Statement of Changes in Equity, entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that Group and Company Balance Sheets, Group and standard were provided.
Company Cash Flow Statements, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1.
In our opinion: Overview t the financial statements give a true and fair Materiality: group financial 13.7m YLHZ RI WKH VWDWH RI WKH URXSoV DQG RI WKH statements as a whole parent &RPSDQ oV affairs as at 31 March 2018 1% of Total Assets DQG RI WKH URXSoV return for the year then ended: Risks of material misstatement t the Group financial statements have been Recurring risks Carrying amount of quoted properly prepared in accordance with investments International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : t the parent Company financial statements have Valuation of direct property been properly prepared in accordance with investments IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and t the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with, QWHUQDWLRQDO 6WDQGDUGV RQ $XGLWLQJ 8. p, 6$V 8. q DQG DSSOLFDEOH ODZ 2XU UHVSRQVLELOLWLHV DUH described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response I Carrying amount of quoted High value balance Our procedures included: investments 7KH URXSoV SRUWIROLR of quoted t Tests of detail: Agreeing the valuation of Group and Parent Company investments makes up 89.1% of the 99.7 per cent of investments in the portfolio 1,217.9m: 2017: 1,047.5m URXSoV WRWDO DVVHWV E YDOXH DQG LV to externally quoted prices: and considered to be one of the key drivers t Enquiry of custodians: Agreeing 99.7 per of results.
We note that the portfolio Refer to pages 50 to 52 Audit cent of investment holdings in the portfolio comprises liquid, quoted investments, Committee Report, page 65 to independently received third party however, due to their materiality in the accounting policy and pages 72 confirmations from investment custodians.
context of the financial statements as a financial disclosures.
whole, they are considered to be one of Our results the areas which had the greatest effect t We found the carrying amount of quoted on our overall audit strategy and equity investments to be acceptable.
allocation of resources in planning and completing our audit.
Valuation of direct property Subjective valuation Our procedures included: The period of total uninterrupted investments e 7.2 RI WKH URXSoV WRWDO DVVHWV E t Assessing YDOXHUoV credentials: We Group and Parent Company We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities value is held in investment properties assessed the objectivity and professional u 98.0m: 2017: 97.3m where no quoted market price is TXDOLILFDWLRQV RI WKH URXSoV external valuer, available.
through discussions with the valuer and analysing their valuation report: Refer to pages 50 to 52 Audit Each property is unique and No non-audit services prohibited by that Committee Report, page 64 determination of the fair value requires t Methodology choice: We held discussions s accounting policy and page 72 judgement over the choice of valuation with the external valuer to understand the financial disclosures.
methodology to apply, as well as valuation methodology used: estimation, in particular over the key I t Benchmarking assumptions: We held assumptions of the estimated rental discussions with the external valuer to value and the yield.
The key assumptions understand movements in property values.
will be impacted by a number of factors We challenged the key valuation including location, quality and condition of assumptions by making a comparison to our the building and tenant credit rating.
own understanding of the market and to industry benchmarks: t Test of detail: We compared a sample of rental income used in the valuations to lease contracts: t Assessing transparency: we considered the adequacy of the Group's disclosures about the degree of estimation and sensitivity to key assumptions made when valuing investment properties.
Our results t We found the carrying amount of direct property investments to be acceptable.
W We believe that the audit e Our audit opinion i TR Property pp33-58.
qxp 08 06 2018 14:20 Page 56 Group Materiality Total Assets D 3.
Our application of materiality and an 13.7m 2017: 11.9m 1,367m 2017: 1,190m overview of the scope of our audit W B Materiality for the group financial statements as a 13.7m whole was set at 13.7m 2017: 11.9m, Whole financial determined with reference to a benchmark of statements materiality total assets, of which, it represents 1% 2017: 2017: 11.9m 1%.
12.9m In addition, we applied materiality of 2.3m 2017: Parent materiality 2.0m, to investment income, gross rental 2017: 11.3m income, net revenue returns on contracts for difference, management and performance fees, finance costs and taxation, for which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could W reasonably be expected to influence the FRPSDQ oV PHPEHUVo DVVHVVPHQW RI WKH ILQDQFLDO Total Assets 0.7m performance of the Group.
Group materiality Misstatements reported to the audit committee 2017: 0.6m Materiality for the parent Company audit was set at 12.9m 2017: 11.3m, determined as 0.9% of the total assets of the parent Company 2017: Our opinion on the financial statements does 0.9%.
n We reported to the Audit Committee any uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding O 683,000 2017: 595,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
For those areas to which a U lower materiality was applied, we reported any We have nothing to report in this Based solely on that work we have misstatements exceeding 114,000 2017: r n 101.000.
For the audit of the parent Company we reported any misstatements exceeding C 645,000 2017: 563,000.
W Our audit of the Company was undertaken to the materiality level specified above and was SHUIRUPHG DW WKH DGPLQLVWUDWRUoV KHDG RIILFH LQ Dundee.
The audit team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
This approach is unchanged from the prior year.
The audit of the Group was performed using the Group materiality level set out above.
does not properly disclose a d W TR Property pp33-58.
We have nothing to report on going concern Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability We are required to report to you if: Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial t we have anything material to add or draw attention to statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw LQ UHODWLRQ WR WKH GLUHFWRUVo VWDWHPHQW in note 1 to the attention to in relation to: financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that t the Directorso FRQILUPDWLRQ ZLWKLQ the Viability Statement may cast significant doubt over the Group and on page 31 that they have carried out a robust &RPSDQ oV XVH RI WKDW EDVLV IRU D SHULRG RI DW OHDVW assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, twelve months from the date of approval of the including those that would threaten its business model, financial statements: or future performance, solvency and liquidity: t if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 36 is materially inconsistent with our audit t the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosures knowledge.
describing these risks and explaining how they are being We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other information t WKH GLUHFWRUVo H[SODQDWLRQ LQ WKH Viability Statement of in the Annual Report how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they The directors are responsible for the other information considered that period to be appropriate, and their presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statement as to whether they have a reasonable statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does expectation that the Group will be able to continue in not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated period of their assessment, including any related below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in qualifications or assumptions.
doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have respect.
not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Corporate governance disclosures 6WUDWHJLF UHSRUW DQG GLUHFWRUVo UHSRUW We are required to report to you if: Based solely on our work on the other information: t we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements t we have not identified material misstatements in the DXGLW DQG WKH GLUHFWRUVo VWDWHPHQW WKDW WKH FRQVLGHU VWUDWHJLF UHSRUW DQG WKH GLUHFWRUVo UHSRUW that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and t in our opinion the information given in those reports for provides the information necessary for shareholders to the financial year is consistent with the financial DVVHVV WKH URXSoV SRVLWLRQ DQG SHUIRUPDQFH EXVLQHVV statements: and model and strategy: or t in our opinion those reports have been prepared in t the section of the annual report describing the work of accordance with the Companies Act 2006. the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
'LUHFWRUVo UHPXQHUDWLRQ UHSRUW We are required to report to you if the Corporate, Q RXU RSLQLRQ WKH SDUW RI WKH 'LUHFWRUVo 5HPXQHUDWLRQ Governance Statement does not properly disclose a Report to be audited has been properly prepared in departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on Irregularities s ability to detect which we are required to report by exception We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report financial statements from our sector experience and to you if, in our opinion: through discussion with the Directors, the manager and the t adequate accounting records have not been kept by the administrator as required by auditing standards.
parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly not been received from branches not visited by us: or affect the financial statements including financial reporting t the parent Company financial statements and the part including related company legislation as well as the RI WKH 'LUHFWRUVo 5HPXQHUDWLRQ 5HSRUW WR EH DXGLWHG &RPSDQ oV TXDOLILFDWLRQ DV DQ, QYHVWPHQW 7UXVW XQGHU 8. are not in agreement with the accounting records and tax legislation, any breach of which could lead to the returns: or Company losing various deductions and exemptions from tFHUWDLQ GLVFORVXUHV RI GLUHFWRUVo UHPXQHUDWLRQ VSHFLILHG UK corporation tax.
We considered the extent of by law are not made: or compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
t we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications We have nothing to report in these respects.
of non-compliance throughout the audit.
Respective responsibilities As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nondetection of non-compliance with relevant laws and 'LUHFWRUVo UHVSRQVLELOLWLHV regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the As explained more fully in their statement set out on page override of internal controls 53. the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine our responsibilities is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, 7KLV UHSRUW LV PDGH VROHO WR WKH &RPSDQ oV PHPEHUV DV D whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken SDUHQW &RPSDQ oV DELOLW WR FRQWLQXH DV D JRLQJ FRQFHUQ VR WKDW ZH PLJKW VWDWH WR WKH &RPSDQ oV PHPEHUV WKRVH disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: PDWWHUV ZH DUH UHTXLUHG WR VWDWH WR WKHP LQ DQ DXGLWRUoV and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the alternative but to do so.
&RPSDQ oV PHPEHUV DV D ERG IRU RXU DXGLW ZRUN IRU WKLV $XGLWRUoV responsibilities report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion LQ DQ DXGLWRUoV UHSRUW 5HDVRQDEOH DVVXUDQFH LV D KLJK OHYHO of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit Richard Kelly Senior Statutory Auditor conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are Chartered Accountants considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they 15 Canada Square could reasonably be expected to influence the economic Canary Wharf decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
London A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the E14 5GL 5&oV ZHEVLWH DW www.
