INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TRAVIS PERKINS PLC 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Travis Perkins plc We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated that standard have been provided in the last three years.
and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes, Overview including the accounting policies.
Materiality: 16m 2017: 17m In our opinion: Group financial statements 5% 2017: 5% of Group loss as a whole before tax and adjusting items the financial statements give a true and fair view of the as disclosed on the face of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as income statement at 31December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year Coverage 95% 2017: 94% of Group loss thenended: before tax and adjusting items as disclosed on the face of the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared income statement in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by theEU : New risks The impact of uncertainties due to the the parent Company financial statements have been properly New UK exiting the European prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Union on our audit as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Going Concern New Act 2006: and Recurring risks Valuation of the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Wickes goodwill with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, Parent Companys key as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the audit matter: IASRegulation.
Recoverability of the Basis for opinion parent Companys investments in We conducted our audit in accordance with International subsidiaries Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Recognition of supplier Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit income and recoverability evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis of respective receivables for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to Costing of inventory the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 28May2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the four financial years ended 31 December 2018.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response The impact of uncertainties Unprecedented levels of uncertainty We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the due to the UK exiting the consideration of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning and All audits assess and challenge the European Union on our audit performing our audits.
Our proceduresincluded: reasonableness of estimates, in particular as described below with respect to the key audit Our Brexit knowledge We considered the Directors assessment of Refer to pages 34 to 41 matters outlined below related to the valuation Brexit-related sources of risk for the Groups business and financial principal risks, pages 32 of Wickes goodwill and recoverability of the resources compared with our own understanding of the risks.
We to 33 viability statement, parent Companys investments in subsidiaries, considered the Directors plans to take action to mitigate the risks.
pages 66 to 71 Audit and related disclosures and appropriateness Committee Report.
Sensitivity analysis When addressing the valuation of Wickes of the going concern basis of preparation of goodwill and recoverability of the parent Companys investments in the financial statements see below.
All of subsidiaries and other areas that depend on forecasts, we compared these depend on assessments of the future the Directors analysis to our assessment of the full range of economic environment and the groups future reasonably possible scenarios resulting from Brexit uncertainty and, prospects andperformance.
where forecast cash flows are required to be discounted, considered In addition, we are required to consider the adjustments to discount rates for the level of remaining uncertainty.
other information presented in the Annual Assessing transparency As well as assessing individual Report including the principal risks disclosure disclosures as part of our procedures on the valuation of Wickes and the viability statement and to consider goodwill and of the recoverability of the parent Companys the Directors statement that the annual investments in subsidiaries we considered all of the Brexit related report and financial statements taken as a disclosures together, including those in the strategic report, whole is fair, balanced and understandable comparing the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position Our results and performance, business model and As reported under rthe valuation of Wickes goodwill and strategy.
recoverability of the parent Companys investments in subsidiaries, Brexit is one of the most significant economic we found the resulting estimates and related disclosures of the events for the UK and at the date of this report valuation of Wickes goodwill and of the recoverability of the parent its effects are subject to unprecedented levels Companys investments in subsidiaries and disclosures in relation of uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit should be of possible effects unknown.
expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a company and this is particularly the case in relation toBrexit.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Going concern Disclosure quality Our procedures included: driven by Brexit The financial statements explain how the Funding assessment: Refer to pages 66 to 71 Board has formed a judgement that it is Assessing the current and available committed facilities to Audit Committee appropriate to adopt the going concern understand the financial resources available to the Group during the Report and page 114 basis of preparation for the Group and forecast period.
Considering any related covenants requirements and accountingpolicy.
the evidence available regarding whether they will be met.
That judgement is based on an evaluation Market analysis: of the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model and how We performed inquiries with key management personnel and our those risks might affect the Groups and own restructuring specialists to better understand the implications Companys financial resources or ability of the Companys share price performance and implied market to continue operations over a period of at expectations on the Companys going concern assessment.
least a year from the date of approval of the : financialstatements.
Assessing historical forecasting accuracy, by comparing forecast The risks most likely to adversely affect the cash flows to those actually achieved by the Group.
Groups and Companys available financial resources over this period were: Sensitivity analysis: The impact of a significant business Considering sensitivities over the level of available financial continuity issue affecting the Groups resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking account suppliers: and of reasonably possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these risks individually and collectively resulting The uncertainty of Brexit and knock on fromBrexit: impact on consumer demand and the Groups supply chain.
Benchmarking assumptions: The risk for our audit was whether or not Comparing the Groups assumptions used in the cash flow those risks were such that they amounted projections to externally derived data in relation to key inputs such as to a material uncertainty that may have cast projected growth and cost inflation: significant doubt about the ability to continue as a going concern.
Had they been such, then Assessing transparency: that fact would have been required to have Assessing the completeness and accuracy of the Going concern been disclosed.
disclosures in the Annual Report and considering whether they reflect the position of the Groups financing and the risks associated with the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our results: We found the going concern disclosure without any material uncertainty to be acceptable.
100 Auditors Report The risk Our response Valuation of Forecast based valuation Our procedures included: Wickes goodwill A worsening in the UK economy, fall in Historical comparisons: Assessing the reasonableness of the Goodwill: 455 million: consumer confidence, the impact of cost forecast used by considering the historical accuracy of previous 2017: 702 million price inflation or being slow to respond to forecasts and the results currently being achieved.
changes in customer buying behaviours are Refer to pages 66 to 71 Our sector experience: Assessing whether assumptions used, in factors that could impact the performance Audit Committee Report, particular those relating to forecast revenue growth, profit margins of certain of the Groups businesses in a pages 126 and 157 and maintenance capital expenditure, reflect our knowledge of the manner that the related goodwill could become Critical judgements and business and industry, including known or probable changes in the impaired.
In particular, in the Consumer key sources of estimation business environment.
division performance in the Wickes business uncertainty and pages has been lower than forecast.
The headroom Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging, using our own valuation 126 to 128 and 156 to 157 has decreased year-on-year and has resulted specialists, the key inputs used in the Groups calculation of the financialdisclosures.
in an impairment being recognised during discount rate by comparing it to externally derived data, including the year.
The recoverable amount which is available sources for comparable companies.
based on value in use remains sensitive to Sensitivity analysis: Performing our own sensitivity analysis on the certain assumptions, such as discount rate, forecast, including a reduction in assumed growth rates, increased forecast revenue growth, profit margins and capital expenditure, reduced ability to pass through cost price maintenance capital expenditure and so further inflation and an increased discount rate to identify key assumptions impairments may arise.
The estimated recoverable amount is Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures subjective due to the inherent uncertainty regarding the sensitivity of the impairment assessment, to changes involved in forecasting and discounting future in key assumptions, appropriately reflects the risks inherent in the cash flows.
The effect of these matters is that, as part Our results of our risk assessment, we determined that the valuation of goodwill has a high degree We found the resulting estimate of the valuation of Wickes goodwill to of estimation uncertainty, with a potential be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as awhole.
Recoverability of the parent Subjective estimate Our procedures included: Companys investments The carrying amounts of the parent Companys Benchmarking assumptions: Where net assets of the subsidiary insubsidiaries investments in subsidiaries are significant do not support the total value of the investment, challenging the 3,545 million: and at risk of irrecoverability due to the risk assumptions used in the budgets supporting the carrying value 2017: 3,805 million factors described above, which resulted in an of the investment based on our knowledge of the Group and the impairment being recognised during the year.
markets in which the subsidiaries operate: Refer to pages 66 to 71 The estimated recoverable amount of these Audit Committee Report, Historical comparisons: Assessing the reasonableness of the balances is subjective due to the inherent pages 126 and 156 to 157 budgets by considering the historical accuracy of the previous uncertainty in forecasting trading conditions accounting policy and forecasts: and cash flows used in the budgets.
pages 126 to 128 and 157 to Our sector experience: Evaluating the current level of trading, 158 financial disclosures The effect of these matters is that, as part including identifying any indications of a downturn in activity, of our risk assessment, we determined by examining the post year end management accounts and that the recoverable amount of the cost of considering our knowledge of the Group and the market: and investments in subsidiaries has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the parent range of reasonable outcomes greater than Companys disclosures in respect of the investments in subsidiaries.
our materiality for the financial statements as Our results a whole.
We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of the parents investments in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2017:acceptable.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The risk Our response Recognition of supplier Subjective estimate Our procedures included: rebate income and As a result of the wide range of products and Tests of details: Agreeing a statistical sample of rebate income recoverability of suppliers to the Group, there are a significant recorded in the year, including amounts outstanding at the year end,  number of complex and varying purchase to cash received or credit notes raised.
Refer to pages 66 to agreements within the businesses specifically Historical comparisons: For a sample of supplier balances 71 Audit Committee involving fixed price discounts, volume rebates outstanding post the year end, assessing the success rate of Report, page 131 Critical and customer sales support.
judgements and key We consider the risk relates to the calculation sources of estimation Third party confirmations: Comparing a sample of supplier rebate of the income receivable, including the uncertainty and page 131 balances to the third party confirmations and challenging the recoverability of the year end receivables from financialdisclosures.
explanations of variances, if any.
suppliers in respect of these agreements.
Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the The risk is driven by the complexity of this Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in calculation across the range of products the recognition of the supplier rebate income receivable and its and divisions and the estimation relating to respective recoverability.
the collection rate of this income, including recoverability of the amounts outstanding at Our results the year end.
We consider the amount of supplier income recognised and The effect of these matters is that, as part the estimated recoverability of the respective receivables to be of our risk assessment, we determined acceptable 2017: acceptable.
that the recoverability of the year end receivables from suppliers has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as awhole.
Costing of inventory Complex calculation Our procedures included: 806 million: 2017: 806 As the Group carries a wide range of stock, Accounting analysis: Evaluating the appropriateness of the million the volume of supplier income and fixed price methodologies applied in determining product cost and critically discounting agreements that are required assessing the respective calculations including the allocation of Refer to pages 66 to to be deducted from the cost make the rebates attributable to inventory at the year end as described in the 71 Audit Committee inventory cost accounting a significant audit supplier rebate income recognition risk above.
Additional complexities include overhead judgements and key sources Data analytics: Recalculating the merchanting inventory net allocations and ageing accounting systems.
purchase cost at year end from the full years product cost database.
We consider the risk to relate to the accuracy Tests of details: For a statistical sample of recalculated stock cost of the inventory cost held on the balance sheet vouching the product cost to third party purchase documentation.
Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures regarding the degree of estimation involved in arriving at the cost.
Our results As a result of our work, we consider the costing of inventory to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Our application of materiality and an overview The remaining 12% of total Group revenue, 5% of adjusted of the scope of our audit Group profit before tax and before adjusting items and 11% of total Group assets is represented by 40 reporting components, Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was none of which individually represented more than 4% of any set at 16 million 2017: 17 million, determined with reference of total Group revenue, adjusted Group profit before tax and to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation adjusted for before adjusting items or total Group assets.
For these residual impairment of intangible assets and adjusting items as components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group disclosed on the face of the income statement Adjusted Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant profit before tax of 337.3 million of which it represents risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks whole was set at 8.0 million 2017: 9.1 million, determined detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The with reference to a benchmark of Company total assets, of which Group audit team approved the component materialities, which it represents 0.2% 2017: 0.2%.
ranged from 1.5 million to 8.0 million, having regard to the mix We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.5 million, work on 2 of the 10 components 2017: 2 of the 10 components in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted was performed by component auditors, and the rest, including reporting on qualitative grounds.
the audit of the parent Company, was performed by the Group team.
The Group team performed procedures on the items Of the Groups 67 2017: 50 reporting components, we subjected excluded from adjusted Group profit before tax.
10 all UK based 2017: 10 all UK based to full scope audits for Group purposes.
The Group audit team visited 1 of the 2 2017: 2 of 2 component locations subject to full scope audits to assess the audit risk and The components within the scope of our work accounted for strategy.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with the percentages illustrated opposite which refer to the total these component auditors.
At these visits and meetings, the adjusted profit and adjusted losses that made up the total Group findings reported to the Group audit team in more detail, and loss before tax and before adjusting items, total revenue and any further work required by the Group audit team was then totalassets.
performed by the component auditor.
Group loss before tax Group Materiality Group loss before tax 16.0m 2017: 17.0m and adjusting items Group revenue and before adjusting items 337.3m 2017: 330.6m 16.0m Whole financial statements materiality 2017: 17.0m 8.0m 88% 95% Range of materiality 2017: 92% 2017: 94% at 10 components 1.5m to 8.0m 92 94 2017: 0.8m to 9.1m 88 95 Group total assets Group LBT before 0.5m adjusting items Identied misstatements reported to the Audit Group materiality Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 Committee 2017: 0.5m adjusting items as disclosed on the face of the Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 89% income statement.
2017: 87% Residual components 87 89 103 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements Financial statements 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as they with the Companies Act 2006. have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded Directors remuneration report that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial Companies Act 2006. statements the going concern period.
Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial related to going concern, to make reference to that in this statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or attention to in relation to: conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the Directors confirmation within the viability statement pages the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material 32 to 33 that they have carried out a robust assessment of uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would Group and the Company will continue in operation.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency We identified going concern as a key audit matter see section 3 andliquidity: of this report.
Based on the work described in our response to the Principal Risks and uncertainties disclosures describing that key audit matter, we are required to report to you if: these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in notes to the financial statements the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over they have done so and why they considered that period to be the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in statements: or operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on pages attention to any necessary qualifications orassumptions.
32 to 33 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
We have nothing to report on the other information Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context in the Annual Report of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as The Directors are responsible for the other information presented subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance Corporate governance disclosures conclusion thereon.
We are required to report to you if: Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements we have identified material inconsistencies between the audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
and the Directors statement that they consider that the Based solely on that work we have not identified material annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, misstatements in the other information.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and Strategic report and Directors report performance, business model and strategy: or Based solely on our work on the other information: the section of the annual report describing the work of the we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters report and the Directors report: communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
104 Auditors Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial statements 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on Irregularities ability to detect which we are required to report by exception We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements if, in our opinion: from our general commercial and sector experience and through discussion with the Directors and other management as required adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent by auditing standards, from inspection of the Groups Stay Safe Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Committee minutes and legal and regulatory correspondence and received from branches not visited by us: or discussed with the Directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws andregulations.
the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our agreement with the accounting records and returns: or team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations are not made: or identified at Group level.
we have not received all the information and explanations we The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial require for our audit.
The Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including 7.
Respective responsibilities related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation, taxation legislation, health and safety regulation and employment law and we Directors responsibilities assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 96, part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial Whilst the group is subject to many other laws and regulations, statements including being satisfied that they give a true and we did not identify any others where the consequences of fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to non-compliance alone could have a material effect on amounts enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from or disclosures in the financial statements.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and so.
regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited Auditors responsibilities procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional the financial statements as a whole are free from material omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
responsibilities Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent website at www.
uk  permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Greg Watts Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants One Snowhill Snow Hill Queensway Birmingham B4 6GH 25 February 2019 105
