STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of Tritax Big Box REIT plc Opinion the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest We have audited the financial statements of Tritax Big Box REIT entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group for accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Group evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement of a basis for our opinion.
Financial Position, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and Statement of Changes in Equity, Notes to the Consolidated viability statement Accounts, the Company Balance Sheet, the Company Statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information of Changes in Equity and the Notes to the Company Accounts, in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of attention to: the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on pages 60-67 European Union, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being Companies Act 2006.
The financial reporting framework that has managed or mitigated: been applied in preparing the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, the Directors confirmation set out on page 88 in the Annual including Financial Reporting Standard 101 The Financial Reporting Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United principal risks facing the Group, including those that would Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: In our opinion: the Directors statement set out on page 68 in the financial statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 the financial statements and the Directors identification of any December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: material uncertainties to the Group and the Parent Companys the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly whether the Directors statement relating to going concern prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule Standards: and 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the the Directors explanation set out on page 68 in the Annual Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that Basis for opinion period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over under those standards are further described in the Auditors the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 105 Governance Independent Auditors Report Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These statements of the current period and include the most significant matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we fraud that we identified, including those which had the greatest do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter How the scope of our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of investment property portfolio, including Experience of Valuer and relevance of its work properties under construction forward funded assets We read the Valuers report and confirmed that the approaches Refer to note 1 in relation to accounting policies over significant used were consistent with the requirements of IFRSs as adopted estimates and judgements by the European Union.
We assessed the Valuers competence and capabilities and read their terms of engagement with the Refer to note 15 in relation to investment property.
Group, determining that there were no matters that affected their independence and objectivity or imposed scope limitations upon The valuation of investment property requires significant judgement them.
and estimates by the Directors and the independent valuer and is therefore considered a significant risk due to the subjective nature Data provided to the Valuer of certain assumptions inherent in each valuation.
We validated the data provided to the Valuer by the Manager and found that it was consistent with the information we audited.
This The Groups investment property portfolio includes: data included inputs such as current rents and lease terms, which we have agreed on a sample basis to executed lease agreements Standing assets: these are existing properties that are currently as part of our audit work.
They are valued using the income capitalisation method.
Assumptions and estimates used by the Valuer Properties under construction: these are properties being built We met with the Valuer and gained an understanding of the under forward funded agreements with developers and which valuation methods and assumptions used.
We have considered have agreed pre lets with tenants.
Such assets have a different the assumptions utilised by the Valuer within the valuation and risk and investment profile to the standing assets.
They are valued benchmarked the valuation to our expectations developed using using the residual method ie by estimating the fair value of the independent data around the period end.
completed project using the income capitalisation method less estimated costs to completion and an appropriate developers For properties under construction we assessed the project costs margin.
and progress of developments and verified the forecast costs to complete included in the valuations to third party costs to complete Any input inaccuracies or unreasonable bases used in the valuation information.
judgements such as in respect of estimated rental value and yield profile applied could result in a material misstatement of the income Our testing indicated that the estimates and assumptions used were statement and balance sheet.
appropriate in the context of the Groups property portfolio.
There is also a risk that the Directors may influence the significant judgements and estimates in respect of property valuations in order to achieve property valuation and other performance targets to meet market expectations.
Additionally, properties under construction may involve licence fees receivable from the developer during the construction phase and lease incentives to the pre-let tenant.
Accounting for such assets is typically more complex than for standing assets.
106 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our application of materiality We determined that the same measure as the Group was We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing appropriate for the Parent Company, and the performance our audit, and in the evaluation of the effect of misstatements on materiality and specific performance materiality applied were the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality is assessed on 16.5 million and 3.08 million 2017: 15.75 million and both quantitative and qualitative grounds.
Reporting threshold Materiality 30 million We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report Performance materiality 22.5 million to the Committee all individual audit differences in excess of Specific materiality 4.5 million 0.60 million 2017: 0.50 million as well as differences below this threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative Specific performance materiality 3.375 million grounds.
Reporting threshold 0.6 million We agreed that the reporting threshold for the Parent Company Materiality would be 0.44 million 2017: 0.42 million.
The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
We determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 30 million 2017: 25 million, which was set at 1% of An overview of the scope of our audit Group total assets 2017: 1%.
This provides a basis for determining Our audit of the Group was scoped by obtaining an understanding the nature and extent of our risk assessment procedures, identifying of the Group and its environment, including the Groups system of and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the internal control, applicable legal and regulatory framework and the nature and extent of further audit procedures.
industry in which it operates, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group and Parent Company level.
This included We determined that total assets would be the most appropriate consideration of the risk that the Group was acting contrary to basis for determining overall materiality as we consider it to be one applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
of the principal considerations for members of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
The Group operates solely in the United Kingdom and operates through one segment, investment property, structured through 76 We determined that for other account balances, classes of subsidiary Special Purpose Vehicle SPV companies.
The Group transactions and disclosures not related to investment properties audit team performed all the work necessary to issue the Group a misstatement of less than materiality for the financial statements and Parent Company audit opinions.
None of the subsidiary SPVs as a whole could influence the economic decisions of users.
We were considered to be significant components, and as such the determined that materiality for these areas should be 4.5 million audit approach included undertaking audit work on the key risks 2017: 3.75 million, which was set at 5% 2017: 4.8% of European of material misstatement identified for the Group across the SPV Public Real Estate Association EPRA earnings.
excludes the impact of the net surplus on revaluation of investment properties and interest rate derivatives.
We undertook audit procedures to respond to the risk of noncompliance with laws and regulations, focussing on those that We determined that the same measures as the Group were could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Parent appropriate for the Parent Company, and the materiality and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the specific materiality applied were 22 million and 4.1 million Companies Act 2006, the UK Listing Rules, the REIT regime 2017: 21 million and 3.7 million respectively.
requirements and legislation relevant to the rental of properties.
We made enquiries of management to obtain further understanding Performance materiality of risks of non-compliance.
There are inherent limitations in the The application of materiality at the individual account or balance audit procedures described above and the further removed level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our assessment We addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that by undertaking procedures to review journal entries processed overall performance materiality for the Group should be 75% 2017: during and subsequent to the year end and evaluate whether 75% of materiality, namely 22.5 million 2017: 18.75 million.
there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 107 Governance Independent Auditors Report Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies We consider that the audit procedures we planned and performed Act 2006 in accordance with ISAs UK have provided us with reasonable In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to assurance that irregularities, including fraud, would have been be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the detected to the extent that they could have resulted in material Companies Act 2006. misstatements in the financial statements.
Our audit was not designed to identify misstatements or other irregularities that would In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of not be considered to be material to the financial statements.
the audit: Other information the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors The other information comprises the information included in Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and Auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially Parent Company and its environment obtained in the course of the inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially Report or the Directors Report.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have you if, in our opinion: performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been We have nothing to report in this regard.
received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other agreement with the accounting records and returns: or information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are following conditions: not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 92 the require for our audit.
statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced Responsibilities of Directors and understandable and provides the information necessary As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business set out on page 104, the Directors are responsible for the model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied obtained in the audit: or that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as Audit & Risk Committee reporting set out on pages 90-93 the the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation section describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the whether due to fraud or error.
Audit & Risk Committee: or In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to Governance Code set out on page 74 the parts of the Directors continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the related to going concern and using the going concern basis of Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose alternative but to do so.
a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
108 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors report.
Other matters which we are required to address We were initially appointed in November 2013 to audit the financial statements of the Company for the period ended 31 December 2014.
In respect of subsequent periods we have been reappointed annually by the members at the Annual General Meeting.
Following a competitive re-tender in May 2017 we were reappointed to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is five years, covering the years ended 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent Company in conducting our audit.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit & Risk Committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Parent Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Parent Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Parent Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Richard Levy Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of BDO LLP, Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 6 March 2019 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 109 Financial Statements 110 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Financial Statements Financial Statements Group Statement of 6.
Administrative and other expenses 123 Group Statement ofFinancialPosition 113 9.
Directors remuneration 124 Group Cash FlowStatement 114 10.
Finance expense 124 Group Statement of ChangesinEquity 115 12.
Taxation 125 Notes to the Consolidated Accounts 116 13.
Trade and other payables 133 accounting policies 117 20.
Standards issued and effective from 21.
Net asset value NAV per share 140 29.
Subsequent events 143 Company Balance Sheet 144 Company Statement ofChangesinEquity 145 Notes to the Company Accounts 146 1.
Standards issued and effective from 1January2018 148 3.
Net asset value NAV per share 154 14.
Subsequent events 155 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2018 111
