INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS NETHERLANDS KPMG ACCOUNTANTS N. V. UNITED KINGDOM KPMG LLP TO: THE GENERAL MEETING OF UNILEVER N. V. TO: THE MEMBERS OF UNILEVER PLC For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote KPMG Accountants N. V. in relation to the Netherlands responsibilities and reporting obligations to the General Meeting of Unilever N. V. and KPMG LLP in relation to UK responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Unilever PLC.
The Unilever Group the Group consists of Unilever PLC, Unilever N. V. and the entities they controlled during the financial year.
The reports of KPMG Accountants N. V. and KPMG LLP are presented in the left and right hand columns of this report respectively.
With the exception of the key audit matters and materiality in relation to the parent company audits of Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. where separate columns are not presented, the content of the reports of KPMG Accountants N. V. and KPMG LLP are identical.
Key audit matters and materiality disclosures in relation to the parent company audits of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC form part of the reports of KPMG Accountants N. V. and KPMG LLP respectively.
The financial statements the Financial Statements comprise: the consolidated financial statements of the Group the Consolidated Financial Statements : the parent company financial statements of Unilever N. V. the NV Company Accounts : and the parent company financial statements of Unilever PLC the PLC Company Accounts : each of which are defined below.
OUR OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1.
OUR OPINIONS ARE UNMODIFIED What we have audited We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In addition, KPMG Accountants N. V. has audited the NV Company Accounts which comprise the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2018, the company income statement, statement of comprehensive income and statement of changes in equity for 2018 and the notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information and KPMG LLP has audited the PLC Company Accounts which comprise the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2018, the company statement of changes in equity and the notes to the PLC Company Accounts, including the summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Our opinions In our opinion: In our opinion: the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements give the Consolidated Financial Statements and PLC Company Accounts a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group as at give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of Unilever 31 December 2018 and of its result and its cash flows for the year PLCs affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting the year then ended: Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared the EU and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code: and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as the accompanying NV Company Accounts give a true and fair adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU : view of the financial position of Unilever N. V. as at 31 December the PLC Company Accounts have been properly prepared in 2018 and of its result for 2018 in accordance with United Kingdom accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards, including accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Framework and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
both the Consolidated Financial Statements and the PLC Company Accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements Basis for our opinion of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Dutch Standards on Auditing.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Our responsibilities for the Additional opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB audit of financial statements section of our report.
As explained in the accounting policies set out in the Consolidated Financial Statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation We are independent of the Unilever Group in accordance with the to apply IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Group has also applied IFRS EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
of public-interest entities, the Audit firms supervision act Wet In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements have been toezicht  Wta, the Regulation regarding properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
the Independence of Auditors in the case of Assurance Engagements Verordening inzake fide onafhankelijk heid van accountants bij Basis for opinion assurance-opdrachten ViO and other relevant independence We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on regulations in the Netherlands.
Furthermore we have complied with Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are the Regulation Code of Conduct and Professional Practice Auditors described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained Verordening gedrags-en beroepsregels accountants VGBA.
is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 14 May 2014.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the five financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 67 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS CONTINUED OVERVIEW Materiality 380 million 2017: 350 million Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole 5.0% 2017: 4.3% of Group profit before taxation Coverage 78% 2017: 78% of revenue Key Audit Matters Consolidated Financial Statements Recurring risks Revenue recognition Indirect tax contingent liabilities Direct tax provisions 2.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS: OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial Statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinions above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required, where relevant, by law for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The Risk Our Response and Results Revenue recognition Revenue is measured net of discounts, Our procedures included: Refer to page 43 Report incentives and rebates earned by customers Accounting policies: Assessing the appropriateness of the of the Audit Committee, on the Groups sales.
Within a number Groups revenue recognition accounting policies, including those page 82 accounting of the Groups markets, the estimation relating to discounts, incentives and rebates by comparing with policy and pages of discounts, incentives and rebates applicable accounting standards.
83 and 84 financial recognised based on sales made during Control testing: Testing the effectiveness of the Groups controls disclosures.
the year is material and considered to be over the calculation of discounts, incentives and rebates and complex and judgemental, with a potential correct timing of revenue recognition.
range of reasonable outcomes greater than Tests of details: Obtaining supporting documentation for sales our materiality for the financial statements transactions recorded either side of year end as well as credit as a whole.
Therefore, there is a risk of notes issued after the year end date to determine whether revenue being misstated as a result of revenue was recognised in the correct period.
faulty estimations over discounts, incentives Within a number of the Groups markets, comparing current year and rebates.
This is an area of significant rebate accruals to the prior year and, where relevant, completing judgement and with varying complexity, further inquiries and testing.
depending on nature of arrangement.
There Agreeing a sample of claims and rebate accruals to supporting is also a risk that revenue may be overstated documentation.
due to fraud through manipulation of Critically assessing manual journals posted to revenue to identify the discounts, incentives and rebates unusual or irregular items.
recognised resulting from the pressure Our sector experience: Challenging the Groups assumptions local management may feel to achieve used in estimating rebate accruals using our experience of the performance targets.
industry in which it operates.
Revenue is recognised when the Groups Expectation vs outcome: Developing an expectation of the customers obtain control of the underlying current year revenue based on trend analysis information, taking products.
There is a risk of revenue into account historical weekly sales and returns information, and being overstated due to fraud through our understanding of each market.
We compared this expectation manipulation of the timing of transfer against actual revenue and, where relevant, completed further of control resulting from the pressure inquiries and testing.
local management may feel to achieve Assessing disclosures: Considering the adequacy of the Groups performance targets at the reporting disclosures in respect of revenue.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the estimate of the accrual relating to discounts, incentives and rebates and the amount of revenue recognised to be acceptable and recorded in the correct period 2017: acceptable and recorded in the correct period.
68 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Risk Our Response and Results Indirect tax contingent Contingent liability disclosures for Our procedures included: liabilities indirect tax require the Directors to make Control testing: Testing the effectiveness of controls around the judgements and estimates in relation to Refer to page 43 Report recording and re-assessment of indirect tax contingent liabilities.
of the Audit Committee, the issues and exposures.
In Brazil, one of Our tax expertise: Use of our own local indirect tax specialists page 120 accounting the Groups largest markets, the complex to assess the value of the contingent liabilities in light of the nature of the local tax regulations and policy and page 121 nature of the exposures, applicable regulations and related and 122 financial jurisprudence make this an ongoing area correspondence with the authorities.
of judgement, with a potential range of disclosures.
Enquiry of lawyers: Assessing relevant historical and recent reasonable outcomes greater than our judgments passed by the court authorities in considering any materiality for the financial statements legal precedent or case law, as well as assessing legal opinions as a whole, and possibly many times from third party lawyers and obtaining formal confirmations from that amount.
the Groups external counsel, where appropriate.
Assessing disclosures: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures made in relation to indirect tax contingent liabilities.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the indirect tax contingent liability disclosures to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Direct tax provisions The Group has extensive international Our procedures included: Refer to page 43 Report operations and in the normal course of Control testing: Testing the effectiveness of the Groups controls of the Audit Committee, business the Directors make judgements around the recording and re-assessment of transfer pricing page 94 accounting and estimates in relation to transfer pricing provisions.
policy and pages 94 tax issues and exposures.
This is a key Our tax expertise: Use of our own tax specialists to perform an financial disclosures.
estimate due to the Group operating in a assessment of the Groups related correspondence with relevant number of tax jurisdictions, the complexities tax authorities, to consider the valuation of transfer pricing of transfer pricing and other international provisions.
tax legislation, with a potential range of Challenging the assumptions using our own expectations based reasonable outcomes greater than our on our knowledge of the Group, considering relevant judgments materiality for the financial statements passed by authorities, as well as assessing relevant opinions as a whole.
Assessing disclosures: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we found the level of tax provisioning to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Investment in The carrying amount of the investments in Our procedures included: subsidiaries subsidiaries held at cost less impairment Control design: Testing the design of controls over the review represent 78% and 56% of Unilever PLC of the investment impairment analysis.
and Unilever N. V. total assets respectively.
Unilever N. V. Tests of details: Comparing the carrying amount of investments Refer to page 130 with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheet to identify We do not consider the valuation of accounting policy and whether their net assets, being an approximation of their these investments to be at a high risk of page 132 financial minimum recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying significant misstatement, or to be subject disclosures.
amount and assessing whether those subsidiaries have to a significant level of judgement.
Unilever PLC due to their materiality in the context of the Our sector experience For the investments where the carrying NV Company Accounts and PLC Company Refer to page 135 amount exceeded the net asset value, comparing the carrying Accounts, this is considered to be an area accounting policy and amount of the investment with the expected value of the business which had the greatest effect on our overall page 136 financial based on a suitable multiple of the subsidiaries earnings or audit strategy and allocation of resources disclosures.
in planning and completing our audits of Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging the assumptions used in the multiple of the subsidiaries earnings and discounted cash flow analysis based on our knowledge of the Group and the markets in which the subsidiaries operate.
Assessing disclosures: Considering the adequacy of Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. disclosures in respect of the investment in subsidiaries.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 69 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS CONTINUED The Risk Our Response and Results Intangible assets The carrying amount of intangible assets Our procedures included: Unilever N. V. represent 5% of Unilever N. V. total assets.
Control design: Testing the design of controls over the review Refer to page 130 of the intangible assets impairment analysis.
We do not consider the valuation of these accounting policy and Tests of details: Assessing the Directors triggering event review intangible assets to be at a high risk of page 131 financial relating to the intangible assets having regard to the performance significant misstatement, or to be subject disclosures.
of the related brands and trademarks.
to a significant level of judgement.
However, Our sector experience: Evaluating assumptions used, in due to their materiality in the context of the particular those relating to forecast revenue growth and NV Company Accounts this is considered to royalty rates.
be an area which had the greatest effect on Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing assumptions to our overall audit strategy and allocation of externally derived data in relation to key inputs such as royalty resources in planning and completing our rates and discount rates.
audit of Unilever N. V. Sensitivity analysis: Performing sensitivity analysis on the assumptions noted above.
Assessing disclosures: Considering the adequacy of Unilever N. V. disclosures in respect of the intangible assets.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of intangible assets to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Materiality Based on our professional judgement, the materiality for the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole was set at 380 million 2017: 350 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, of which it represents 5.0% 2017: 4.3%.
Materiality for KPMG LLPs audit of the PLC Company Accounts as a whole was set at 100 million 2017: 120 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Unilever PLC Net Assets, of which it represents 2.9% 2017: 2.2%.
Materiality for KPMG Accountants N. V. s audit of the NV Company Accounts as a whole was set at 275 million 2017: 190 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Unilever N. V. Net Assets, of which it represents 1.1% 2017: 1.9%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 20 million 2017: 17 million in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Overall scope of our audit The Group operates through a significant number of legal entities and these form reporting components that are primarily country based.
To provide sufficient coverage over the Groups key audit matters, we performed audits of 15 components 2017: 14, which are included within Audit for group reporting purposes below, as well as audits of account balances including revenue and the related accounts receivables balances at a further 23 2017: 19 components which are included within Audit of account balances below.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes but were included in the scope of our group reporting work in order to provide additional coverage.
The Group operates seven main centralised operating centres in India, Brazil, Thailand, Poland, Philippines, Mexico and China that perform accounting and reporting activities alongside related controls.
Together, these operating centres process a substantial portion of the Groups transactions.
The outputs from the centralised operating centres are included in the financial information of the reporting components they service and therefore they are not separate reporting components.
Each of the operating centres is subject to specified audit procedures.
Further audit procedures are performed at each reporting component to cover matters not covered at the centralised operating centres and together this results in audits for group reporting purposes on those reporting components.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Group's results: Total profits and losses that made up Group Number of profit before Group total 2018 components Group revenue taxation assets Audits for group reporting purposes 15 52% 69% 72% Audits of account balances 23 26% 12% 6% Total 38 78% 81% 78% 2017 Audits for group reporting purposes 14 52% 61% 77% Audits of account balances 19 26% 16% 5% Total 33 78% 77% 82% 70 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT CONTINUED The remaining 22% 2017: 22% of Group revenue, 19% 2017: 23% of total profits and losses that made up Group profit before taxation and 22% 2017: 18% of Group total assets is represented by a significant number of reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 3% 2017: 3% of any of Group revenue, total profits and losses that made up Group profit before taxation or Group assets.
A substantial portion of these components utilise the seven operating centres and are therefore subject to audit procedures performed at these operating centres.
For these components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the key audit matters detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 1 million to 275 million 2017: 1 million to 275 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on components was performed by component auditors.
The Group audit team visited locations in Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Netherlands, Philippines, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, UK, USA and Vietnam 2017: Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, South Africa and USA.
Telephone and or online meetings were also held with these component auditors and the majority of the others that were not physically visited.
The findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail with component auditors and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditors.
The work on 36 of the 38 components 2017: 31 of the 33 components was performed by component auditors and the audit of the parent companies, were performed by the Group audit team.
Scope in relation to irregularities Fraud In accordance with the Dutch and UK standards on auditing we are responsible for obtaining reasonable assurance that the financial statements taken as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
In determining the audit procedures we noted the evaluation of Directors in relation to fraud risk management prevention, detections and response.
The Groups fraud risk management includes maintaining ethical standards that create a culture of honesty throughout the Group.
In our process of identifying fraud risks we assessed events or conditions that indicate an incentive or pressure to commit fraud or provide an opportunity to commit fraud fraud risk factors.
In this risk assessment we made use of our own forensic specialist.
Based on the auditing standards we addressed the two presumed fraud risks that were relevant to our audit, in relation to revenue recognition and management override of controls.
Based upon our analysis of fraud risk factors, we have not identified any additional fraud risks.
Our audit procedures included an evaluation of the internal controls relevant to mitigate these risks.
We also performed substantive audit procedures, including: detailed testing of high risk journal entries: and the procedures included within our response to the revenue recognition key audit matter described in section 2 of this report.
Through these procedures, we did not identify any material actual or suspected incidences of fraud.
Laws and regulations We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards and discussed with the Directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including taxation and financial reporting including related company legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation.
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: competition legislation reflecting the Groups involvement in a number of ongoing investigations by national competition authorities, employment legislation reflecting the Groups significant and geographically diverse work force, health and safety regulation reflecting the nature of the Groups production and distribution processes, consumer product law such as product safety and product claims reflecting the nature of the Groups diverse product base, contract legislation reflecting the potential for the Group to infringe trademarks, copyright and patents and environmental regulation reflecting environmental impact restrictions, waste and contamination related to the Groups production and distribution processes.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
Through these procedures, we did not identify any additional actual or suspected non-compliance outside of those previously identified by the Group in each of the above areas.
We considered the effect of this as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
The identified actual or suspected non-compliance was not sufficiently significant to our audit to result in our response being identified as a key audit matter.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 71 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS CONTINUED 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT CONTINUED Scope in relation to going concern The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Companies or the Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Companies and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditor's report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Companies will continue in operation.
In our evaluation of the Directors going concern assessment and conclusions, we considered the inherent risks to the Groups and Companies business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Companies financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period.
The risks that we considered most likely to adversely affect the Groups and Companies available financial resources over this period were: continued slowdown in the broader macro-economic environment and therefore market growth: increased global and local competition: and external pressures on gross margin through cost price inflation.
As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt on the Groups and the Companies' ability to continue as a going concern, we considered sensitivities over the level of available financial resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking account of reasonably possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these risks individually and collectively and evaluated the achievability of the actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position should the risks materialise.
We also considered realistic second order impacts, such as a major IT data breach, the loss of all material litigation cases and Brexit which could result in a rapid reduction of available financial resources.
We report on going concern as part of the section Report on the other We have nothing to report on going concern information included in the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: 2018 in this report.
we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and PLC Companys use of that basis for a period of at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the UK Listing Rules set out on page 66 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
OTHER REPORTING Report on the other information included in the Unilever Annual We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Report The Directors are responsible for the other information presented In addition to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the NV Company in the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 together with the Accounts and our auditors report thereon, the Unilever Annual Report Financial Statements.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does and Accounts 2018 contains other information that consists of: not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express the report of the Directors consisting of the Strategic Report and an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of the Governance Report: assurance conclusion thereon.
other information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code: Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, PLC Company Accounts: consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, Group Companies: the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with Shareholder information: the Financial Statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on Index: and that work we have not identified material misstatements in the Additional information for US Listing Purposes.
Based on the below procedures performed, we conclude that the Strategic report and Directors report other information, including the Directors going concern statement Based solely on our work on the other information: as included on page 66: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic is consistent with the Financial Statements and does not contain report and the Directors report: material misstatements: and in our opinion the information given in those reports for the contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the financial year is consistent with the Consolidated Financial Netherlands Civil Code.
Statements and the PLC Company Accounts: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance We have read the other information.
Based on our understanding with the Companies Act 2006. obtained through our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the NV Company Accounts or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements.
72 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 4.
OTHER REPORTING CONTINUED By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Directors remuneration report Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code and the Dutch Auditing In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Standard 720.
The scope of the procedures performed is substantially be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the Companies Act 2006.
Consolidated Financial Statements and the NV Company Accounts.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability The Directors are responsible for the preparation of other information, Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have including the report of the Directors in accordance with Part 9 of Book nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code and the other Information as required the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on page by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
28 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its Report on other legal and regulatory requirements business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: Engagement the Principal Risk Factors disclosures describing these risks and We were engaged as auditor of Unilever N. V. for the 2018 year by explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the General Meeting on 3 May 2018 and have operated as statutory the Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they auditor since the financial year 2014. have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they No prohibited non-audit services have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable Article 5 1 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation statutory audit of public-interest entities.
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the UK Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Unilever PLCs longer-term viability.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the UK Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the PLC Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the PLC Company Accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements 73 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS CONTINUED RESPONSIBILITIES Directors and Audit Committees responsibilities Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for: As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 66, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Consolidated the preparation and fair presentation of the Consolidated Financial Financial Statements and the PLC Company Accounts including being Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
They are also responsible and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, and for the for: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the Report of the Directors in accordance with Part 9 preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements and PLC Company of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code: Accounts, that are free from material misstatement, whether due the preparation and fair presentation of the NV Company Accounts to fraud or error: assessing the Group and PLC Companys ability to in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards, including continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and Part 9 of Book 2 of to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting the Netherlands Civil Code: and unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the PLC Company such internal control as management determines is necessary or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
to enable the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and NV Company Accounts that are free from material Auditors responsibilities misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible whether due to fraud, other irregularities see below, or error, and for assessing the Groups and Unilever N. V. s ability to continue to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance as a going concern.
Based on the financial reporting frameworks is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit mentioned, the Directors should prepare the Consolidated Financial conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material Statements and NV Company Accounts using the going concern misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually the Group and or Unilever N. V. or to cease operations, or have no or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors should disclose in the the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial Consolidated Financial Statements and NV Company Accounts events statements.
and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Groups and or Unilever N. V. s ability to continue as a going concern.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups financial reporting process.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities Our responsibilities for the audit of financial statements This report is made solely to the PLC Companys members, as a Our objective is to plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient and body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.
2006 and the terms of our engagement by the PLC Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the PLC Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of Companys members those matters we are required to state to them assurance, which means we may not detect all material errors and fraud during our audit.
in an auditors report, and the further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with the terms agreed with the PLC Company, Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the PLC expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the Company and the PLC Companys members, as a body, for our audit basis of these financial statements.
The materiality affects the nature, work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located at the website of fide Koninklijke Nederlandse Beroepsorganisatie van Accountants NBA, Royal Netherlands Institute of Chartered Accountants at: http: www.
This description forms part of our independent auditor's report.
SIGNING Eric van Leeuwen Paul Korolkiewicz External auditor Senior Statutory Auditor KPMG Accountants N. V. for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Amsterdam Chartered Accountants 6 March 2019 London 6 March 2019 74 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2018
