Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNITE GROUP PLC ONLY Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements of The Unite Group plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Groups financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated and parent company statements of cash flow: and the related sections 1 to 7.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Investment property and development property valuation: Accounting for Joint Ventures: and Real Estate Investment Trust REIT compliance.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 21.0m which was determined on the basis of net assets.
However, we use a lower threshold of 4.4m for balances which impact European Public Real Estate Association EPRA earnings.
Scoping Consistent with our approach in the prior year, our Group audit scope comprises the audit of The Unite Group plc as well as the Groups Joint Ventures, The Unite UK Student Accommodation Fund USAF and The London Student Accommodation Venture LSAV.
All audit work was completed by the Group audit team.
Significant changes There have been no significant changes in our audit approach in the current year.
in our approach 100 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we We have reviewed the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate have nothing material to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the to report, add or draw Groups and parent companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval attention to in respect of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we have nothing material obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the to report, add or draw Groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything attention to in respect material to add or draw attention to in relation to: of these matters.
the disclosures on pages 28 to 31 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 99 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 27 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Investment property and development property valuation Key audit matter description The Groups principal assets are investment properties 2018: 1.497.1m: 2017: 1,261.4m and investment properties under development 2018: 278.9: 2017: 205.7m.
The Group also holds investments in its joint ventures, USAF and LSAV, with their principal assets also being investment properties.
The investment properties are carried at fair value based on an appraisal by the Groups independent external valuers.
Valuations are carried out at six-monthly intervals for the Group in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation Professional Standards the Red Book, taking into account transactional evidence during the year.
Management conduct a detailed exercise twice annually to assess the valuation of the Groups property portfolio.
The valuation is underpinned by a number of judgements and assumptions as it requires the estimation of property yields, rental growth, occupancy and property management costs.
A small change in these assumptions could have a significant impact on the valuation of properties and there is an associated fraud risk due to the risk of management override of controls relating to the valuation process.
With regards to the valuation of the USAF properties, small changes could also have a significant impact on a key input to the calculation of a performance fee which could be recognised for the year ended 31 December 2018 if the hurdle rate is achieved as this is based on the net asset value of the fund.
With regards to the investment properties under development, additional judgement is required to forecast discounted cash flows with a deduction for construction costs to complete.
Refer to page 69 Audit Committee Statement and section 3.1: Wholly owned property assets and section 3.4 Investments in joint ventures.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 101 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNITE GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED How the scope of our We performed testing on the property valuations and critically assessed the judgements and estimates that had been audit responded to made.
This work included: the key audit matter Understanding and documenting the underlying business process and then evaluating the design, determining implementation and testing operating effectiveness of the relevant controls: Understanding and challenging the assumptions used in relation to key drivers such as rental income and growth, occupancy, yields and costs with reference to the trends at the end of the year and the following years budget.
Our assessment as to the appropriateness of the assumptions included consideration of the impact of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union: Meeting with the Groups valuers to understand the assumptions being taken and consistency of the judgements with prior year: Working with our valuation experts within our Deloitte Real Estate team to benchmark the assumptions used against market data: and Assessing the Groups development appraisal process through meeting with the development team and assessing the forecast cost to complete against budget and substantive testing of costs incurred to date.
Key observations We are satisfied with the approach and methodology adopted in valuing the property portfolio and consider the valuations to be suitable for inclusion in the financial statements at 31 December 2018.
Accounting for Joint Ventures Key audit matter description A significant proportion of the Groups assets is held within USAF and LSAV, jointly owned entities that are accounted for under the equity method as joint ventures 2018: 819.7: 2017: 793.5m, on the basis that Unite does not control the entities.
At 31 December 2018 Unite had a 25.3% 2017: 24.6% ownership of USAF and 50.0% 2017: 50.0% ownership of LSAV, and acts as manager of both joint venture vehicles.
Due to the complexity of the contractual arrangements, and the Groups role as manager of the joint venture vehicles, the assessment of control involves judgements around a number of significant factors, particularly with regards to USAF given that it is a multi-investor fund and the Unite ownership stake is subject to change.
In accordance with the requirements of IFRS, there is a need to assess control with regards to the ability to direct relevant activities, to have exposure to variable returns and the ability to use power to affect returns at each reporting period.
Management have assessed in line with the prior year that Unite does not have control over USAF and LSAV, but has joint control.
Consequently Management has accounted for the joint ventures under the equity method rather than consolidating them within the Groups financial statements.
Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Statement and section 3.4: Investments in joint ventures.
How the scope of our Our audit procedures on this area focused on assessing the activities of the businesses, understanding the contractual audit responded to the agreements in place and identifying the methodology applied by Management in reaching their business decisions in key audit matter order to consider the appropriateness of the classification of these arrangements as joint ventures in accordance with the requirements of IFRS.
With regards to both USAF and LSAV, we have: Understood and documented the underlying business process and evaluated the design, determined implementation and tested operating effectiveness of the relevant controls: Critically assessed the key activities and how they impact the returns to the Group from the funds and challenged Managements own consideration of these factors in their application of IFRS: Assessed the Groups monitoring of its role and the three key factors relating to control and its exercise in accordance with the judgement required under IFRS: and Reviewed any changes to the fund agreements in the year.
Given the particular focus on USAF, we have: Assessed the role of the USAF Advisory Committee and concluded that Unite does not have sole power to direct the activities that are likely to most significantly affect the returns of USAF in the future, and therefore Unite does not have control of USAF: and Critically evaluated the impact of the percentage ownership on a regular basis.
102 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Key observations There have been no changes to the structure and the role played by Unite as investor and asset development manager or to the fund agreements in the year.
We consider Managements conclusion that Unite does not have control of the Joint Ventures to be consistent with our conclusion.
Therefore, treatment as joint ventures is considered to be appropriate.
REIT compliance Key audit matter description On 1 January 2017, the Group converted to a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT, with HMRC confirming that the election to REIT status has been validly made.
The primary tax consequences of conversion and ongoing maintenance of REIT status are that future UK property business profits and gains on investment properties are not subject to UK corporation tax.
Most notably, this means that the Group no longer recognises deferred tax in relation to the valuation gains on the investment property portfolio.
In order to maintain REIT status, the Group must comply with certain tests and other conditions to ensure its continuation under the regime.
Due to the material impact on the Groups financial results of remaining in compliance with the REIT regime requirements, we consider REIT compliance to be a key audit matter.
Refer to page 70 Audit Committee Statement and section 2.5: Tax.
How the scope of our Our audit procedures included: audit responded to the key audit matter Understanding and documenting the underlying business process and then evaluating the design, determining implementation and testing operating effectiveness of the relevant controls: Utilising tax audit specialists, including REIT specialists, to assess whether the key judgements relating to REIT compliance are understood: Considering the clarity and presentation of the Groups disclosures of its tax balances and effective tax rate reconciliation: and Testing the Groups current and forecast compliance with the REIT regime rules.
Our assessment as to the appropriateness of the Groups forecasts included consideration of the impact of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union.
Key observations We are satisfied with Managements calculations and compliance with the REIT regime.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality Net Assets: 21.0m 2017: 17.5m 20.0m 2017: 16.5m EPRA Impacting Measures: 4.4m 2017: 3.5m Basis for determining 1% of Net Assets 2017: 1% of Net Assets 1% of Net Assets 2017: 1% of Net Assets materiality 5% of EPRA Earnings 2017: 5% of EPRA Earnings Rationale for the We determined materiality for the Group based on 1% of net assets as As the parent holding company the principal benchmark applied the balance sheet is considered to be a key driver of a property group.
activity is to hold the investments in subsidiaries.
Therefore, the net assets balance is considered to In addition to net assets, we consider the EPRA earnings measure to be a be the key driver of the companys performance critical financial performance measure for the Group and we have applied and the most relevant benchmark for materiality.
a lower threshold based on 5% of EPRA earnings for testing of revenue, cost of sales, operating expenses, loan interest and similar charges, finance income, share of joint venture profit and taxation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 220,900 2017: 176,250 for the Group and the Parent Company, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 103 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNITE GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
The Group is audited by one audit team, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
The audit is performed centrally at the Bristol head office, as the books and records for each entity within the Group are maintained at this location.
The Group only operates within the United Kingdom this includes Unite as well as the two joint ventures, USAF and LSAV.
Consistent with the prior year, we audit the results of the Group together with USAF and LSAV for the purposes of our Group audit.
We have also tested the consolidation process to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual We have nothing report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
to report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
104 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of Management, Internal Audit, the Groups in-house legal counsel and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations and IT specialists regarding how and where material fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: investment property and development property valuation owing to the risk of management override of controls relating to the valuation process: and revenue recognition owing to the risk of management override of controls relating to the revenue IT system: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included: the UK Companies Act 2016: Listing Rules: and tax legislation.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified investment property and development property valuation as a key audit matter.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matter in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to that key audit matter.
As a result of performing the above, we did not identify any key audit matters related to the potential risk of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of Management, the Audit Committee and both in-house and external legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: in addressing the identified revenue fraud risk: testing the revenue IT system controls utilising our IT specialists: and vouching a sample of rental income to tenancy agreement acceptance and cash receipt: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 105 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNITE GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: to report in respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration to report in respect have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting of these matters.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board on 10 June 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 4 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Judith Tacon Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 27 February 2019 106 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Strategic report p0151 Corporate governance p5299 Financial statements p100155 Other information p156160 INTRODUCTION AND TABLE OF CONTENTS These financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The Board of Directors also presents the Groups performance on the basis recommended for real estate companies by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA.
The reconciliation between IFRS performance measures and EPRA performance measures can be found in section 2.2 a for EPRA earnings and 2.3 c for EPRA net asset value NAV.
The adjustments to the IFRS results are intended to help users in the comparability of these results across other listed real estate companies in Europe and reflect how the Directors monitor the business.
We have grouped the notes to the financial statements under six main headings: Results for the year, including segmental information, EPRA earnings and EPRA NAV Asset management Funding Working capital Key management and employee benefits Company subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Each section sets out the relevant accounting policies applied in these financial statements together with the key judgements and estimates used.
Primary statements Section 4: Funding Consolidated income statement 4.1 Borrowings Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 4.2 Interest rate swaps Consolidated balance sheet 4.3 Net financing costs Company balance sheet 4.4 Gearing Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity 4.5 Financial risk factors Company statement of changes in shareholders equity 4.6 Operating leases Statements of cash flows 4.7 Capital management 4.8 Equity Section 1: Basis of preparation 4.9 Dividends Section 2: Results for the year Section 5: Working capital 2.1 Segmental information 5.1 Cash and cash equivalents 2.2 Earnings 5.2 Trade and other receivables 2.3 Net assets 5.3 Credit risk 2.4 Revenue and costs 5.4 Trade and other payables 2.5 Tax 5.5 Transactions with other Group companies 2.6 Audit fees Section 6: Key management and employee benefits Section 3: Asset management 6.1 Staff numbers and costs 3.1 Wholly owned property assets 6.2 Key management personnel 3.2 Inventories 6.3 Share-based compensation 3.3 Other non-current assets 3.4 Investments in joint ventures Group Section 7: Company subsidiaries and joint ventures 3.5 Investments in subsidiaries Company THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 107
