Governance 121 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Vesuvius plc Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement Report on the audit of the of Cash Flows, and the Group and Company Statements of financial statements Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant Opinion accounting policies.
In our opinion: Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Vesuvius plcs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements give a true Basis for opinion and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys We conducted our audit in accordance with International affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit and Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
cash flows for the year then ended: Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements the group financial statements have been properly prepared in section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: our opinion.
the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Independence Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting We remained independent of the group in accordance with the Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial Framework, and applicable law : and statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our the financial statements have been prepared in accordance other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit Regulation.
services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the company.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, Other than those disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements, which comprise: the Group and Company Balance Sheets as at we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the 31 December 2018: the Group Income Statement and Group company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our Audit Approach Overview Materiality Audit scope Key audit matters Materiality Overall group materiality: Our audit included full scope Provisions for exposures 9.4 million 2017: 7.6 million, audits of 20 components and Group.
based on 5% of profit before specified procedures on Provisions for income tax tax and separately reported certain balances and uncertainties Group.
items Headline profit transactions for 8 additional Audit scope before tax.
Recognition of deferred tax assets for tax losses Group.
Overall company materiality: Taken together, the 9.4 million 2017: 7.6 million, components at which either Impairment of investment in based on 1% of total assets, full scope audit work or subsidiaries Company.
capped to the level of group specified audit procedures Key audit materiality.
were performed enabled us matters to get coverage on 68% of revenue and 78% of Headline profit before tax.
The scope of our audit those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements such as the Companies As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and Act 2006.
We evaluated managements incentives and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements.
statements including the risk of override of controls, and Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to revenue and management bias in Based on our understanding of the group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and accounting estimates.
The group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could regulations related to tax, health and safety and anti-bribery, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the group material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered Vesuvius plc 122 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Vesuvius plc continued engagement team and or component auditors included: regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
e nquiries of group and local management, internal audit Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to and the groups legal counsel internal and, where relevant, fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from external, including consideration of known or suspected error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for instances of fraud and non-compliance with laws and example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through regulations: collusion.
u nderstanding and evaluating the design and implementation Key audit matters of managements controls designed to prevent and detect Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors irregularities, including whistleblowing arrangements: professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit i nspecting management reports and Board minutes in relation of the financial statements of the current period and include the to health and safety matters: challenging assumptions and most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether judgements made by management in their critical accounting or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those estimates, in particular in relation to provisions for exposures which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the and uncertain tax positions see related key audit matters allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the below : and engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the i dentifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in entries posted with unusual account combinations, postings by forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate unusual users or with unusual descriptions.
This is not a complete list of all risks There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described identified by our audit.
above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provisions for exposures We obtained an understanding for the basis of each significant estimate and the key assumptions used for provisions and, in certain cases, the related insurance assets.
The group holds a number of provisions for exposures including those resulting from Restructuring costs related to the groups rationalisation of its operational and restructuring commitments, and disposal support functions.
The costs predominantly included redundancies and severance and closure costs, including litigation payments, plant closure costs, professional advisor fees and other impairment matters.
Refer to Restructuring Charges charges for obsolete inventories and property, plant and equipment.
Note 7 on page 141 Provisions Note 31 We have tested a sample of restructuring costs to determine that these are on page 168 Critical Accounting directly attributable to the groups restructuring activities.
Judgements and Estimates Note 3 on page 135 and Significant issues and For costs which are provided for at the year end we have verified for a sample of material judgements in the Audit transactions that a legal or constructive obligation exists.
From our procedures we concluded that restructuring costs were appropriately Determining the quantum of provisions recognised and classified within the financial statements.
requires the directors to use judgement For provisions for disposal and closure costs, including litigation matters: and estimation, and for certain provisions, obtain specialist knowledge.
We obtained supporting computations for the estimated costs and tested the mathematical accuracy of these.
We focused on this area due to the judgement and estimates involved and We discussed obligations arising with in-house and external legal counsel and the disclosures required.
inspected supporting evidence of the history of claims arising where these were used as inputs into client models used to estimate the provisions, with the support Group of an internal expert.
We also inspected evidence of available insurance cover and that this was appropriately presented gross of the associated provisions within Other receivables and considered the financial condition of insurance providers.
We considered whether there is a material range of different possible outcomes and or costs involved in respect of each provision.
Where appropriate, we verified that disclosure is included within the Annual Report of this.
From our procedures, we concluded the quantum of each provision held was appropriate.
We also considered the impact of the provisions for exposures on the reporting and disclosure of separately reported items and Alternate Performance Measures in the financial statements and verified that appropriate disclosures are made in the Annual Report.
Governance 123 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provisions for income tax uncertainties We utilised our tax specialists to provide a view of material judgements made.
Our audit procedures included: The group holds a number of provisions for income tax exposures arising from tax Obtaining relevant computations and correspondence in respect of each material structuring, transfer pricing and local element of the provision for Income tax uncertainty, including knowledge gained authority reviews.
Refer to Income Tax Note 10 on page 143 Understanding the key assumptions made by management in recognising Critical Accounting Judgements and the provision and forming an independent view on the reasonableness of Estimates Note 3 on page 135 and the assumptions.
Significant issues and material judgements Assessing the consistency of approach used to determine provisions compared to in the Audit Committee Report page 88. prior periods, and considering whether such consistency remains appropriate.
Determining the quantum of these Considering the range of possible outcomes in respect of the estimate and that the provisions requires the directors to make Annual Report discloses the nature of the estimation uncertainty.
judgements and estimates, and for certain provisions, obtain specialist knowledge.
From our procedures we concluded that the estimates are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have been included within the Annual Report.
Group Recognition of deferred tax assets for tax We utilised our tax specialists to support with the audit testing of the quantum of losses tax losses and other temporary differences in the US and that this is accurately determined, including taking into account any ongoing interpretations in respect of In certain territories such as the US, the major changes from US tax reform in December 2017.
We concluded the tax losses group has a material quantum of historical and other temporary differences are accurately determined.
tax losses and other temporary differences.
In addition to testing the quantum of temporary differences: The determination of whether deferred tax assets should be recognised involves an We tested managements forecasts of future taxable profits, which supported the estimation of future taxable profits and amounts recognised as a deferred tax asset, and considered the likelihood of these an assessment of the probability that forecasts being achieved.
these would result in future utilisation We considered temporary differences not recognised and that the rationale for these of temporary differences.
In addition, other factors such as the expiry dates of was supported by expiry dates, tax legislation and the forecasts.
We concluded that the deferred tax asset appropriately reflects expected levels of future utilisation.
temporary differences and any complexities in legislation are also considered in We assessed the disclosure of deferred tax asset recognised in 2018 within estimating the quantum to recognise Separately reported items and agreed that with regard to the quantum of the as a deferred tax asset.
amount recognised this year that this was appropriate.
We also considered the Refer to Income Tax Note 10 on page 143 disclosure of the utilisation of the deferred tax asset which is included in Headline performance and that the accounting policies adequately explain this treatment.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Estimates Note 3 on page 135 and In addition to our testing of the US deferred tax asset recognised we also tested the recognition or non-recognition in respect of temporary differences in other Significant issues and material judgements in the Audit Committee Report page 88. locations.
Based on the supporting evidence and rationales obtained we concurred with the specific treatments for each location tested.
Group From our procedures we concluded that the estimate of the deferred tax asset recognised is appropriate and that relevant disclosures have been included within the Annual Report.
Impairment of investment in subsidiaries We focused on this area due to the material quantum of the carrying value of investments.
We considered managements assessment of indicators of impairment IAS 36 Impairment of assets requires and whether there were any new developments in 2018 which may indicate an management to consider whether there are impairment to the carrying value of the investment in subsidiaries.
Factors considered any indicators of impairment at the year end.
were: The company holds investments in subsidiaries The results of the Value in use model used for the impairment test over goodwill.
with a total carrying amount of 1,778m at 31 December 2018.
Performance of the group in 2018 against the budget and the Boards outlook for the group.
We did not consider the valuation of these investments to be a significant risk of Market capitalisation of the group, adjusted for net debt.
misstatement, however, due to the quantum of the We concluded that no indicators of impairment of the companys carrying value of carrying amount this was an area of significance investments in its subsidiaries had arisen.
in the audit of the company.
Judgement is required to determine whether impairment indicators exist which, if identified, would require an impairment test to be performed.
Refer to Investment in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures Note 6 on page 179.
Company Vesuvius plc 124 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Vesuvius plc continued How we tailored the audit scope performed at the group level, including testing the consolidation process, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed financial statements as a whole.
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we group and the company, the accounting processes and controls, determined the type of work that needed to be performed at and the industry in which they operate.
the components by us, as the group engagement team, or by component auditors of other PwC network firms.
Where the work Vesuvius has operations in 41 countries and has 59 production was performed by component auditors, we determined the level sites.
The group consolidates financial information through of involvement and oversight we needed to have in the audit work reporting from its components which include divisions and at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient functions at these sites.
appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our Our audit scope was determined by considering the significance opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
This was achieved of the components contribution to revenue and contribution through regular communications with the component auditors, to individual financial statement line items, with specific including visits to 10 of the 20 full scope components by senior consideration to obtaining sufficient coverage over areas of high members of the group audit team.
risk and locations and entities where we identified significant or Materiality inherent risks.
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of We identified one significant component being the groups materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
German operations which comprise 12% of the groups revenue.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to As the groups remaining revenue is spread across 53 financial determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and reporting components there were no other individually financially extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial significant components.
The audit scope, including Germany, statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect comprised 20 components for which we determined that full of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the scope audits would need to be performed and 8 components financial statements as a whole.
for which specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed.
This collectively gave us coverage Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality of 68% of the groups revenue and 78% of the groups Headline for the financial statements as a whole as follows: profit before tax.
This, together with the additional procedures Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 9.4 million 2017: 7.6 million 9.4 million 2017: 7.6 million How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and separately 1% of total assets, capped to the level of reported items Headline profit before tax group materiality Rationale for benchmark We believe that profit before tax and We believe that total assets is an applied separately reported items Headline profit appropriate basis for determining before tax provides us with an appropriate materiality for the parent company, given basis for determining our overall group this entity is an investment holding materiality given it is a key measure used company and this is an accepted auditing by users of the financial statements both benchmark.
The materiality was capped internally and externally.
Headline profit to the level of group overall materiality.
before tax is an Alternative Performance The company is not an in-scope component Measure presented and defined in the in our group audit.
Annual Report and Financial Statements.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.5 million The range of materiality allocated across components was Group audit 2017: 0.4 million and 0.5 million Company between 0.5 million and 6.0 million.
Certain components were audit 2017: 0.4 million as well as misstatements below audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for than our overall group materiality.
Governance 125 Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention We have nothing material to add or to to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about draw attention to.
whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern However, because not all future events basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors or conditions can be predicted, this identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and the companys statement is not a guarantee as to ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months the groups and companys ability from the date of approval of the financial statements.
to continue as a going concern.
For example, the terms on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications on the group and companys trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern We have nothing to report.
in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and Reporting on other information company and their environment obtained in the course of the The other information comprises all of the information in the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our Strategic Report and Directors Report.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not the group express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our The directors confirmation on page 31 of the Annual Report responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial The directors explanation on page 31 of the Annual Report statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that what period they have done so and why they consider that there is a material misstatement of this other information, period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able based on these responsibilities.
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK or assumptions.
Companies Act 2006 have been included.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Based on the responsibilities described above and our work directors statement that they have carried out a robust undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless of making inquiries and considering the directors process otherwise stated.
supporting their statements: checking that the statements are Strategic Report and Directors Report in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors of the group and company and their environment obtained in the Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with course of the audit.
Listing Rules the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 Vesuvius plc 126 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Vesuvius plc continued Other Code Provisions Use of this report We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and report when: only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other The statement given by the directors, on page 120 that they purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to balanced and understandable, and provides the information whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save necessary for the members to assess the groups and where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Other required reporting group and company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
Companies Act 2006 exception reporting The section of the Annual Report on page 88 describing the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address if, in our opinion: matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
we have not received all the information and explanations we The directors statement relating to the companys compliance require for our audit: or with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a adequate accounting records have not been kept by the relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Rules, for review by the auditors.
received from branches not visited by us: or Directors Remuneration certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to are not made: or be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the Audit We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements Appointment As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 120, the directors are responsible Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with appointed by the members on 10 May 2017 to audit the the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 and a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the engagement is 2 years, covering the years ended 31 December preparation of financial statements that are free from material 2017 to 31 December 2018. misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Julian Jenkins Senior Statutory Auditor In preparing the financial statements, the directors are for and on behalf of  LLP responsible for assessing the groups and the companys ability to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters London related to going concern and using the going concern basis of 27 February 2019 accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Financial Statements 127 SEC TION FIVE F I NAN C IAL STATE ME NTS In this section: Group Income Statement 128 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 129 Group Statement of Cash Flows 130 Group Balance Sheet 131 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 132 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 133 Company Balance Sheet 176 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 177 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 178 Five-Year Summary: Divisional Results 183 Shareholder Information 184 Glossary 186
