Corporate governance Independent auditors report to the members of Victrex plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Victrex plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the Financial Statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2018 and of the Groups profit and u the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union u and, as regards the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of theCompanies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, u Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the Balance sheets as at 30 September 2018: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Cash flow statements, and the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: the accounting policies: and the notes to the financial statements.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
Webelieve that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2018.
Our audit approach Overview u Overall Group materiality: 6.4 million, based on 5% of profit before tax.
u Overall Company materiality: 1.9 million, based on 1% of total assets.
u Of the Groups 21 reporting components we subjected five to audits for Group reporting purposes, Materiality andone to specified risk-focused audit procedures, over revenue and trade receivables.
u Our audit focused on those entities with the most significant contribution to the Groups results, being Victrex Manufacturing Limited, Invibio Limited, Invibio Inc, Victrex USA Inc, Victrex Plc and the Audit consolidation journals.
scope u The components within the scope of our work accounted for 84% of Group revenue and 84% ofGroupprofit before tax.
Key audit u Valuation of the UK defined benefit pension scheme refer to page 53 Audit Committee report, matters page100 accounting policy and pages 100 to 102 financial disclosures.
u Valuation of inventories refer to page 53 Audit Committee report and page 95 accounting policy and financial disclosures.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Inparticular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates thatinvolved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industries in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation and Tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with legal advisors and enquiries of management.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
74 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Our audit approach continued We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we donot provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of the UK defined benefit pension scheme Our procedures included: Challenging, with the support of our own actuarial specialists, the key Refer to page 53 Audit Committee report, page100 assumptions applied, being the discount rate, inflation rate and accounting policy and pages 100 to 102 financial disclosures.
mortality life expectancy against externally derived data and internally Significant assumptions are made in valuing the UKs defined benefit developed benchmarks: pension scheme before deducting scheme assets including in Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the particular the discount rate, inflation rates and the average life sensitivity of the surplus to changes in these assumptions: expectancy.
Small changes in the assumptions used could have a Recognition of the surplus in line with accounting standards: and significant effect on the financial position of the Group.
Obtaining confirmations from fund managers over the pension asset values and reviewing the validity of pension scheme member data used.
We found the assumptions made in the valuation of the UK defined benefit pension scheme to be acceptable.
Valuation of inventories We have reviewed the assessment of normal levels of production for standard costing purposes by comparing actual and budgeted levels Refer to page 53 Audit Committee report and page 95 ofproduction over the past three years: and have understood and accounting policy and financial disclosures.
corroborated the impact of manufacturing variances in relation A number of estimates are involved in arriving at the valuation toproduction output.
We have compared inventory levels to historical sales data to A standard costing process is adopted to value work in progress challengewhether slow moving and obsolete inventories have and finished goods.
At each period end, adjustments are made beenappropriately identified.
This involves estimation We have reviewed post year-end sales in order to be comfortable that ofnormal levels of production and adjustments are made where inventory items are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
considered necessary to reflect the impact of variances in the We have considered the realisation of inventories categorised as carrying value of stock.
nonconforming and obsolete or slow moving at the prior year end In addition, stock provisions are recorded based on a specific andcompared actual recoveries in the year to the Groups accounting policy, taking into account batch ageing and the expectedrecoveries.
Judgements are made with regard to the We have attended year-end inventory counts at the main UK categorisation of stock as non conforming and or slow moving manufacturing facility to gain an understanding of managements obsolete, and therefore whether items should be considered for controls over the identification of non conforming and obsolete provision.
Estimation is then involved in arriving at a provision orslowmoving product.
against cost in respect of non conforming product and or slow We found the estimates made in the valuation of inventory moving inventories so that inventory is carried at the lower of tobeacceptable.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements asawhole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry inwhich they operate.
Of the Groups 21 reporting components we subjected five to audits for Group reporting purposes, and one to specified risk-focused auditprocedures, over revenue and trade receivables.
The components for which we performed  procedures were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, butdid present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed including revenue and trade receivables.
For the 15 remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were nosignificant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team carried out the work on all the components at the Groups offices in Thornton Cleveleys, Lancashire, other than two US divisions where the work was carried out in the US by the Group audit team.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 75 Corporate governance Independent auditors report to the members of Victrex plc continued Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 6.4 million.
How we determined it 5% of Profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied Based on the benchmarks used in the Annual u We believe that total assets is the primary Report, profit before tax is the primary measure used by the shareholders in measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the entity, assessing the performance of the Group, and and is a generally accepted auditing is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
benchmark for non trading companies.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.9 million and 6 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.3 million Group audit and 0.1 million Company audit as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We have nothing material to add or respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors todraw attention to.
However, because considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the not all future events or conditions can financial statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the bepredicted, this statement is not Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least aguarantee as to the Groups and twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Companys ability to continue as a goingconcern.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our Auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, anyformof assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, wearerequired to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
76 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Corporate governance Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the year ended 30 September 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements CA06.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors report CA06.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on pages 26 and 27 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal u risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
u The Directors explanation on pages 26 and 27 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over u what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have areasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period oftheir assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 73, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced u andunderstandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in thecourse of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 53 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters u communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant u provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 CA06.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 73, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as agoing concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Annual Report 2018 Victrex plc 77 Corporate governance Independent auditors report to the members of Victrex plc continued Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or u adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received u frombranches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or u the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with u theaccounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 9 February 2018 to audit the financialstatements for the year ended 30 September 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
This is therefore our first year ofuninterrupted engagement.
Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Manchester 4 December 2018 78 Victrex plc Annual Report 2018 Financial statements 80 C onsolidated income statement 80 C onsolidated statement  81 Balance sheets 82 C ash flow statements 83 Consolidated statement ofchangesinequity 84 C ompany statement ofchangesinequity 85 N otes to the financial statements Shareholder information 108 F ive-year financial summary 109 Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements 110 N otice of Annual GeneralMeeting 114 Explanatory notes 120 Financial calendar andadvisors
