FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF VIVO ENERGY PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION Overview In our opinion: Overall Group materiality: US$13.2 million, Vivo Energy plcs Group financial statements and Company based on 5% of profit before tax and special financialstatements the financial statements give a true and Materiality items, including IPO costs, restructuring costs fairview of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs and share options.
asat31 December 2018 and of the Groups and the Companys Overall Company materiality: US$18.0 million, profitandcash flows for the year then ended: based on1% of net assets.
Audit scope the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in We performed full scope audit work on accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs eightoperating units and audit procedures asadopted by the European Union: over other assets on two additional operating Key audit the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in units.
We performed procedures centrally matters accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting overbalances in the holding companies.
Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising This provided coverage of 77% revenue, FRS102The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the 72%profit before tax, and 76% total assets.
UKandRepublic of Ireland, and applicable law : and Tax and transfer pricing.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Government benefits receivables.
therequirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards theGroup financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The scope of our audit We have audited the financial statements, included within the As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the AnnualReport & Accounts 2018 the Annual Report, which risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we comprise:the Consolidated and Company statements of financial looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example, positionasat 31 December 2018: the Consolidated and Company in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making statements of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Companystatements of cash flows, and the Consolidated and Companystatements of changes in equity for the year then ended: Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud andthe notes to the financial statements, which include a description Based on our understanding of the Group industry, we identified that ofthe significant accounting policies.
the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
to breaches of anti-bribery and corruption laws see page51 ofthe Annual Report, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance BASIS FOR OPINION might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards thefinancial statements such as the Companies Act 2006, Listing Rules, on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities tosignificant component teams.
We evaluated managements incentives forthe audit of the financial statements section of our report.
and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the andappropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to increase revenue or reduce expenditure, and management bias Independence inaccounting estimates.
The Group engagement team shared this risk We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical assessment with the component auditors referred to in the scoping requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements section of our report below, so that they could include appropriate in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to auditprocedures in response to such risks in their work.
listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
component auditors included: To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit discussions with management, internal audit, Head of Ethics and services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided Compliance and the Head of Forensics, including consideration tothe Group or the Company.
ofknown or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws Other than those disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements, andregulation and fraud: wehave provided no non-audit services to the Group or the evaluation of managements controls designed to prevent and detect Companyintheperiod from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. irregularities, in particular their anti-bribery controls.
For example, understanding the Groups bid and contracting approval controls, the OUR AUDIT APPROACH extent to which the Groups anti bribery and corruption programme Context is embedded in operating units, assessment of procedures associated with making one-off payments to counterparties and searching  Accountants NV, have been auditors of third-party sources for allegations of corruption made against the Vivo Energy Holdings B. V. the Parent Company of the Vivo Energy Group and its employees: Group prior to June 2018 since the year ended 31 December 2012. assessment of matters reported on the Groups whistleblowing Following the Groups listing on the Main Market of the London Stock helpline and the results of managements investigation of such matters: Exchange in May,  LLP were appointed as auditors of the Group and Vivo Energy plc.
In preparation of the reading key correspondence with regulatory authorities: listing Vivo Energy plc was incorporated and installed as the Groups Parent Company.
 Accountants NV continue to support  LLP on the audit for the year ended31 December 2018.
102 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to legal and taxclaims and government benefits receivables see related key audit matters below : and identifying and testing journal entries both at a local operating unit level and Group consolidation, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account combinations or posted by senior management.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is fromtheevents and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk ofnot detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context ofour auditof the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This isnot a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Tax and transfer pricing With the assistance of our local and international tax specialists, we evaluated and challenged managements judgements in respect of Refer to Notes 2, 10, 24 and 29 in the Group financial statements.
estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess the The Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions and recognises adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
taxbased on interpretation of local laws and regulations which are We considered managements assessment of known areas of sometimes uncertain and requires interpretation.
Resolution of tax uncertainty and the provisions held against these.
Through examination positions can takeseveral years to complete and be challenging to of managements analysis of these positions, including testing of detailed predict.
At 31December 2018, the Group has current and non-current workings and consideration of advice received from their tax advisers, tax payables of US$104.1 million.
Where the amount of tax payable is we determined that the provisions recognised and the disclosures in uncertain, the Directors are required to exercise significant judgement thefinancial statements were reasonable.
indetermining the appropriate amount to provide in respect of potentialtax exposures and uncertain taxpositions.
We focused on the judgements made by management in assessing thelikelihood and quantification of material exposures.
Government benefits receivables We considered managements assessment of the collectability of government receivables, including provisions and the legal right to offset Refer to Notes 2, 3 and 16 in the Group financial statements.
payables and the historical accuracy of managements estimates in this The Group has US$138.8 million of receivables mainly due from area.
In evaluating managements assessment, we also understood the Morocco, Guinea, Botswana and Senegal governments against which a relationship with the governments and the status of ongoing discussions.
These amounts are sometimes We performed procedures to confirm the accuracy of the receivables significantly aged and with counterparties with poor or no credit ratings by verifying claims arising in the year to underlying records and local refer to Note 3.
Although management has provisioning in place, it is regulations and payments received to bank records.
sometimes complex as exposure is considered net of liabilities with the We considered the recoverability of these balances in light of the government counterparty of which the Group has a legal right of offset governments historical track record of settling similar amounts, the and ability willingness of the government to settle the amounts is difficult credit rating of the government and evidence of the Groups efforts to ascertain.
Based on our work performed, we found the judgments and assumptions used by management in the recoverability assessment of government benefits receivables to be supportable based on the available evidence.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 15 operating units and a number of Netherlands based holding companies.
The financially significant Morocco andKenya operating units required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size.
Audits were performed over six additional operating units for coverage.
In addition, audit procedures were performed by component auditors over government benefits receivables at afurthertwo operating units.
This approach ensured that appropriate audit coverage was obtained over all financial statement line items.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement we needed to have in that audit work to ensure we could conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained for the Group financial statements as a whole.
We issued written instructions to all component auditors and had regular communications with them throughout the audit cycle.
This included a clearance meeting with each component team and review of all significant matters reported.
We performed working paper reviews of the supporting firm, allsignificant components and other components on a rotational basis and in response to any local regulatory findings.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF VIVO ENERGY PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED In addition, the Group engagement partner visited the supporting firm team in the Netherlands and operating unit teams in Kenya and Uganda, including meeting with local audit teams and local management as part of these visits.
We also visited Tunisia as part of our rotational visits programme.
Based on the detailed audit work performed across the Group, we gained coverage of 77% of total revenue, 72% of profit before tax, and76%oftotal assets.
None of the operating units excluded from our Group audit scope individually contributed more than 4% to  6% to profit before tax.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financialstatements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality US$13.2 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and special items, including 1% of net assets.
IPOcosts, restructuring costs and share options.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Group is profit-oriented, therefore it is The entity is a holding company of the rest of the consideredmost appropriate to use a profit-based Groupand is not a trading entity.
The Directors, management and the assetbased measure is considered appropriate.
usersof the Group financial statements focus The strength of the balance sheet is the key measure on adjusted numbers, being adjusted EBITDA, offinancial health that is important to shareholders adjusted EBIT and adjusted net income.
The Group sincethe primary concern for the Parent Company defines adjusted as excluding special items.
Based isthe payment of dividends.
on this, weconsider an adjusted metric ofprofit beforetaxandspecial items to be themost appropriate benchmark.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between US$12.0 million and US$3.3 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above US$0.7 million Group audit andUS$0.9 million Company audit as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
104 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We have nothing material to add or to draw respectof the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors attention to.
However, because not all future considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the events or conditions can be predicted, this financial statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups Groupsand the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least and Companys ability to continue as a going 12months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
For example, the terms on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due to occur on 29March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications on theCompanys trade, customers, suppliers andthewider economy.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing toreport based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK andthe Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below requiredbyISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for theyear ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF VIVO ENERGY PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 55 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 55 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent withtheknowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 97, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model andstrategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 72 describing the work of the Audit committee does not appropriately address matters Communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision ofthe Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 99, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whetherdue to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 ofthe Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose orto any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
106 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches notvisited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
APPOINTMENT Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 20 April 2018 to audit the financial statements fortheyear ended 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
This is therefore our first year of uninterrupted engagement.
Nicholas Stevenson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 5 March 2019 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 107
