Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 117 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of The Weir Group PLC Report on the audit of the financialstatements Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the 2018.
During the year, the Group declared its Opinion Audit Committee.
intention to sell the Flow Control division and it is In our opinion: therefore disclosed as a discontinued operation.
Basis for opinion On 25 February 2019 the Group announced an The Weir Group PLCs Group financial We conducted our audit in accordance with agreement had been reached to sell the division.
statements and Parent company financial International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs statements the financial statements give UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities Each division has businesses in a number a true and fair view of the state of the Groups under ISAs UK are further described in the of locations around the world.
Many of the and of the Parent companys affairs as at Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the businesses are of similar size, so we scoped our 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit financial statements section of our report.
audit to ensure we had appropriate coverage of and cash flows for the year then ended: We believe that the audit evidence we have the Group covering all four divisions.
We included the Group financial statements have been obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a components which accounted for the largest properly prepared in accordance with basis for our opinion.
share of the Groups results or where we International Financial Reporting Standards considered there to be areas of significant Independence IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: risk.
We also considered the markets in which We remained independent of the Group in the Parent company financial statements have the Group operates when we performed our accordance with the ethical requirements been properly prepared in accordance with assessment of scope and areas of significant risk.
that are relevant to our audit of the financial United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting statements in the UK, which includes the The scope of our audit Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed As part of designing our audit, we determined comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our materiality and assessed the risks of material Framework, and applicable law : and other ethical responsibilities in accordance with misstatement in the financial statements.
the financial statements have been prepared these requirements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors in accordance with the requirements of the made subjective judgements, for example in To the best of our knowledge and belief, we Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the respect of significant accounting estimates that declare that non-audit services prohibited by the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the involved making assumptions and considering FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the IAS Regulation.
future events that are inherently uncertain.
Group or the Parent company.
We have audited the financial statements, Capability of the audit in detecting Other than those disclosed in note 4 to the included within the Annual Report and Financial irregularities, including fraud financial statements, we have provided no Statements the Annual Report, which Based on our understanding of the Group, non-audit services to the Group or the Parent comprise: the consolidated and Parent company we identified that the principal risks of noncompany in the period from 1 January 2018 to balance sheets as at 31 December 2018, the compliance with laws and regulations to relate 31 December 2018. consolidated income statement and statement to the wide variety of jurisdictions in which the of comprehensive income, the consolidated cash Our audit approach Group operates and we considered the extent flow statement, and the consolidated and Parent Context to which non-compliance might have a material company statements of changes in equity for the The Group is organised into four operating effect on the financial statements.
We also year then ended, and the notes to the financial divisions: Minerals, Oil & Gas, Flow Control and considered those laws and regulations that have statements, which include a description of the ESCO, with the latter being acquired on 12 July a direct impact on the financial statements such significant accounting policies.
Overview Overall group materiality: 15.5m 2017: 12.4m, based on 5% of profit before exceptional items, amortisation and tax.
Overall Parent company materiality: 1.5m 2017: 1.5m, which is equal to 0.1% of net assets.
Materiality The Group acquired ESCO Corporation on 12 July 2018 and we included this component in our audit.
In total we conducted audit work in 19 components in 11 countries.
We conducted full scope audits on 9 of these components and the audit of specified balances and classes of transactions for the remaining components.
The Group audit engagement team visited the United States, Chile, China and Italy, covering seven components.
Audit In addition, members of the Group engagement team performed the audit of four components based in the UK.
scope The 19 components where we performed audit work accounted for 77% of Group revenue and 84% of profit before exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and tax from continuing operations.
Accounting for the acquisition of ESCO Corporation.
Key audit Accounting for asbestos related claims.
matters Accounting for exceptional items.
Accounting for the disposal of Flow Control Valuation of uncertain tax provisions.
The Weir Group PLC 118 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of The Weir Group PLC continued as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated Challenging assumptions and judgements made audits we also addressed the risk of management managements incentives and opportunities by management in its significant accounting override of internal controls, including testing for fraudulent manipulation of the financial estimates, in particular in relation to the journals and evaluating whether there was statements including the risk of override of classification of costs as exceptional: evidence of bias by the directors that represented controls, and determined that the principal Identifying and testing journal entries, in a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
risks were related to posting inappropriate particular any journal entries posted by senior Key audit matters journal entries to increase revenue or profit.
management, postings to exceptional items, Key audit matters are those matters that, in The Group engagement team shared this risk unusual account combinations and round sum the auditors professional judgement, were of assessment with the component auditors accruals or provisions.
most significance in the audit of the financial referred to in the scoping section of our report There are inherent limitations in the audit statements of the current period and include below, so that they could include appropriate procedures described above and the further the most significant assessed risks of material audit procedures in response to such risks in removed non-compliance with laws and misstatement whether or not due to fraud their work.
Audit procedures performed by the regulations is from the events and transactions identified by the auditors, including those which Group engagement team and or component reflected in the financial statements, the less had the greatest effect on: the overall audit auditors included: likely we would become aware of it.
In addition, strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: Discussions with management, internal the risk of not detecting a material misstatement and directing the efforts of the engagement audit and Group General Counsel, including due to fraud is higher than the risk of not team.
These matters, and any comments we consideration of known or suspected instances detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may make on the results of our procedures thereon, of non-compliance with laws and regulations involve deliberate concealment by, for example, were addressed in the context of our audit of the and fraud or matters reported on the Groups forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or financial statements as a whole, and in forming whistleblowing helpline: through collusion.
our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a Evaluation of managements controls designed separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a We did not identify any key audit matters relating to prevent and detect irregularities: complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
As in all of our Review of Board minutes: Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for the acquisition of ESCO Corporation With support from our internal valuation experts, we obtained an understanding of the Refer to page 87 Audit Committee Report, page 128 methodology applied in allocating the purchase price across tangible assets, intangible Accounting Policies and page 152 note 13. assets, investments in joint ventures and inventory.
This included discussions with managements third party experts, and understanding and assessing the scope of The Group completed the acquisition of ESCO Corporation on the experts work and their independence and competence.
We considered whether 12 July 2018 for a consideration of 791.7m.
Intangible assets management had identified all potential intangible assets.
In conjunction with our acquired were valued at 337.0m and goodwill of 390.5m internal valuation experts, we benchmarked the key assumptions in the valuation was recognised.
The Group was required to complete an models, including the discount rate, against our own internal data and recent public acquisition accounting exercise in accordance with IFRS 3. announcements from other comparable companies.
This comprised determining the fair value of the consideration payable and allocation of the consideration across the various We compared the forecasts used within the intangible asset valuation model to the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, intangible assets and approved budgets at the time of the acquisition.
We understood the basis for the fair any resultant goodwill.
Management used third party experts value adjustments attributed to the assets and liabilities acquired, and tested these to assist them in this exercise in the areas of property, plant adjustments to supporting documentation.
and equipment valuation, inventory valuation, investments in We instructed our component audit team in Portland, USA to perform audit procedures joint ventures, valuation of intangibles and robustness of cost over certain material balances in the balance sheet at the date of acquisition.
The remainder of the testing was performed by the Group engagement team.
The Group Following the acquisition, ESCO was considered by engagement team worked closely with the component team, visiting them three times management to be a separate CGU.
In addition, we reviewed the component teams working papers.
This was an area of focus due to the material values associated We recalculated the resulting goodwill arising following the purchase price with the acquisition and the nature of the judgements and allocation exercise.
assumptions that management was required to make in We tested the disclosures in the financial statements and checked for compliance with determining the associated fair value of the assets acquired.
Group Based on our work performed, we consider the fair value adjustments on the assets and liabilities, and the valuation of intangible assets and goodwill acquired, to be appropriate.
We also performed detailed testing of managements impairment assessment of the carrying value of the CGU as at 31 December 2018.
Management performed a Value in Use assessment in line with IAS 36.
With the support of our internal valuations experts, our procedures included: Assessing the integrity and mathematical accuracy of the model: and Assessing the key assumptions of cash flows, cost synergies, long term growth rate and discount rate.
From the procedures performed, we did not identify any material misstatement in the carrying value of the CGU as at 31 December 2018.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 119 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for asbestos related claims We have performed procedures on both the UK and US asbestos liabilities.
The US Refer to page 87 Audit Committee Report, page 128 provision is the more significant and has a greater level of estimation uncertainty.
Accounting Policies and page 160 note 21.
During 2017 management obtained an updated actuarial estimate of the asbestos liability Provision has been made for future asbestos related claims as from an independent expert and we involved our PwC actuarial experts to assess the at 31 December 2018 of 52.3m 2017: 58.0m.
This consists reasonableness of the methodology used.
We confirmed that the same methodology of a provision of 48.1m 2017: 53.3m for the Groups liabilities was appropriately applied in 2018.
Management assessed the claims submitted and arising from asbestos related damages claims in the US and settled in the year and compared with the actuarial estimate in order to calculate the 4.2m in the UK 2017: 4.7m.
The valuation of the liability involves significant estimation.
We evaluated managements underlying assumptions used in its calculation.
In arriving at the estimate of the liability, management is This included testing of: required to make assumptions including the number and value the mathematical accuracy of the underlying calculations in managements model: of claims and the time period over which the liability can be the input data to managements model, such as the average cost per claim and the reliably measured.
number of settled claims to source data, which we verified directly with the Groups As a result there is a high degree of uncertainty in this estimate.
external lawyers: and the reasonableness of forecast settlement numbers and amounts to data provided The Group has insurance cover in place to offset the US by the Groups external actuarial experts.
We evaluated the appropriateness of provision 48.1m included in other receivables between nonmanagements assessment of the timescale over which a liability can be reliably current and current assets note 17, page 156.
This was also measured, which remains at 10 years.
We also examined the insurance cover held by the Group and modelled the Group likelihood of the cover in place being sufficient to cover the period and amount of the estimated liabilities.
Finally, we tested the disclosures in the financial statements and checked for compliance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and considered them to be appropriate.
We considered the assumptions used by management to be appropriate in arriving at a reliable estimate of the provision.
We also assessed the recognition of an offsetting insurance asset in the financial statements and considered it to be appropriate.
Accounting for exceptional items We obtained a listing of the exceptional costs and income incurred by both component Refer to page 87 Audit Committee Report, page 128 and category and tested a sample to supporting documentation.
Accounting Policies and page 142 note 5.
We checked the nature of the costs and income to assess whether they were treated The Group incurred 157.7m 2017: 3.5m of exceptional appropriately and consistently as exceptional items within the income statement.
charges in the period for continuing operations and 51.6m for We assessed the disclosures in the Annual Report relating to exceptional items.
We considered whether there were other significant costs or income which should have The accurate presentation of costs and income as exceptional been included in exceptional items using our knowledge of the business.
items was considered an area of focus for all reporting units.
We also verified that provisions made in the prior year were appropriately utilised during This was to assess the consistency and accuracy of the Groups the year.
operating profit as reported to shareholders.
We assessed the appropriateness of the classification of items as exceptional for The ESCO acquisition and announced Flow Control disposal compliance with both the Groups accounting policy and IAS 1.
We checked the resulted in non-recurring, material items which were significant disclosure in note 5 for consistency with our understanding and for compliance with in nature and therefore required a higher level of focus.
Group and Parent Company From the audit work performed, we did not identify any material misstatements.
Disposal of Flow Control We confirmed the allocation of the Flow Control assets and liabilities and results to Refer to page 87 Audit Committee Report, page 128 discontinued operations.
Accounting Policies and page 146 note 8.
We have reviewed managements estimate of the fair value less costs to sell by: During 2018, the Group announced its intention to dispose of agreeing to the selling price agreed with the confirmed buyer: and the Flow Control division.
IFRS 5 requires entities to measure assessing the appropriateness of managements estimate of costs to complete the sale discontinued operations at the lower of the carrying amount in line with IAS 36. and fair value less costs to sell.
Since the sale has not been This estimate was then compared to the carrying amount of the Flow Control division in completed, there is therefore some estimation involved in the financial statements and the impairment charge was recalculated.
Based on managements estimate, an impairment of 45.0m has been recognised in respect of the We have assessed the disclosures in the financial statements for compliance with goodwill in the Flow Control division.
Group The Weir Group PLC 120 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of The Weir Group PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of uncertain tax provisions We read the Groups documentation of uncertain tax provisions and tested the more Refer to page 87 Audit Committee Report, page 128 significant provisions for appropriateness by: Accounting Policies and page 144 note 7. confirming the basis of provision: The Group operates in multiple tax jurisdictions and has a understanding the movements on the provision during the year: and number of ongoing discussions and investigations with tax reading correspondence with relevant tax authorities in the assessment of authorities where uncertain tax provisions and treatments may managements calculation.
There is judgement in assessing the level of In addition, we assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the disclosure of tax provisions required to cover the risk of successful challenge over provisions for compliance with IAS 12 Income Taxes.
certain of the Groups tax provisions.
This is an area which requires significant management judgement and has a range Group of possible outcomes.
However, the evidence we obtained, including our testing of assumptions, was materially consistent with the overall level of provisioning in respect of tax.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, the industries in which the Group operates and the areas of audit risk.
The Group is organised into four operating divisions: Minerals, Oil & Gas, Flow Control and ESCO: the latter was acquired on 12 July 2018.
The Flow Control division is in the process of being sold and is therefore disclosed as a discontinued operation.
Each division conducts its business in a number of locations around the world.
Many of the businesses are of similar size, so we scoped our audit to ensure we had appropriate coverage of the Group covering all four divisions.
We included components which accounted for the largest share of the Groups results or where we considered there to be areas of significant risk.
We also considered the markets in which the Group operates when we performed our assessment of scope and areas of significant risk.
The Groups components vary significantly in size and we identified nine components that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their relative size or risk characteristics.
Of these full scope component audits, four were based in the UK and were performed by members of the Group engagement team.
These covered trading components, central functions and Head Office managed balances including treasury, uncertain tax provisions, post-retirement benefits, goodwill and intangibles.
The remaining five full scope component audits were performed by other PwC network firms.
Other PwC network firms also performed specific scope audits over a further 10 components which covered all line items on the income statement and specified line items on the balance sheet.
The scope of work at each component was determined by its contribution to the Groups overall financial performance or balance sheet and its risk profile.
Where component audits were performed by teams from other PwC network firms, members of the Group engagement team were involved in their work throughout the audit.
We maintained regular communication and conducted formal interim and year-end conference calls with all full and specific scope component teams.
The year end discussions also included divisional management.
Of the 19 components in scope, we deemed two to be financially significant to the Group.
We visited one of these locations in the prior year and one in the current year and have a rotational cycle of visits.
The Group engagement leader visited a significant component in the United States, three other components in the United States including the newly acquired ESCO component, and a component in Chile.
Senior members of the Group engagement team also visited components in China and Italy.
Together these full and specific scope component audits gave appropriate coverage of all material balances at a Group level.
On a consolidated basis, these provided coverage of 77% of revenue and 84% of profit before exceptional items, intangibles amortisation and tax.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality 15.5m 2017: 12.4m.
How we 5% of profit before exceptional items, amortisation and tax from 5% of an allocation of Group materiality.
Rationale for It is clear from the Annual Report that this profit measure is used Considering the nature of the business and benchmark applied by shareholders in evaluating the underlying business performance.
activities holding activities we used the Company We applied a lower materiality to the audit of exceptional items and Net Assets value as a basis for the calculation of intangibles amortisation.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.7m and 9.0m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 121 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.75m Group audit 2017: 0.6m and 0.75m Parent company audit 2017: 0.6m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, because not attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate as to the Groups and Parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the For example as is the case for all UK companies, the terms on which the United financial statements and the Directors identification of any material Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due to occur uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent companys ability to on 29 March 2019, are not clear and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential continue as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from implications on the Groups and Parent companys trade, customers, suppliers and the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 51 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 115 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 116, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The Weir Group PLC 122 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of The Weir Group PLC continued The section of the Annual Report on page 87 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 116, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 28 April 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is three years, covering the years ended 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2018.
Lindsay Gardiner Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Glasgow 27 February 2019
