INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of J D Wetherspoon plc Opinion the directors confirmation, set out on page 45 of the annual report that they have carried out a robust Our opinion on the financial statements is assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, unmodified including those that would threaten its business model, We have audited the financial statements of J D future performance, solvency or liquidity: Wetherspoon plc the Company for the period ended the Directors Report, set out on page 45 of the 29 July 2018, which comprise the Income Statement, financial statements about whether the directors the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Cash considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern flow Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of basis of accounting in preparing the financial Changes in Equity and notes to the financial statements and the directors identification of any statements, including a summary of significant material uncertainties to the Companys ability to accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework continue to do so over a period of at least twelve that has been applied in the preparation of the financial months from the date of approval of the financial statements is applicable law and International Financial statements: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the whether the directors statement relating to going European Union.
concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent In our opinion the financial statements: with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or give a true and fair view of the state of the the directors explanation, set out on page 45 of the Companys affairs as at 29 July 2018 and of the annual report as to how they have assessed the Companys profit for the period then ended: prospects of the Company, over what period they have the financial statements have been properly done so and why they consider that period to be prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the appropriate, and their statement as to whether they European Union: and have a reasonable expectation that the Company will have been prepared in accordance with the be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities requirements of the Companies Act 2006. as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to Basis for opinion any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK Overview of our audit approach and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those Overall materiality: 5.3 million, which represents standards are further described in the Auditors 4.95% of the Companys profit before tax and responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements exceptional items: section of our report.
We are independent of the Key audit matters were identified as impairment of Company in accordance with the ethical requirements property, plant and equipment and onerous lease that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements provisions, the classification of exceptional items and in the United Kingdom, including the FRCs Ethical the restatement of historic deferred tax liabilities: Standard as applied to public interest entities, and we This was our first year as auditor and we carried out have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in the professional handover procedures from our accordance with these requirements.
We believe that predecessor auditors in line with the ISAs UK, noting the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and that there were no significant changes in the business appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We formulated our risk assessment based on Who we are reporting to discussions with management, internal audit and This report is made solely to the companys members, operational teams.
We put particular emphasis on as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of areas requiring significant estimate or judgment, and the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been these are highlighted within the Key Audit Matters table undertaken so that we might state to the companys below.
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To Key audit matters the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Key audit matters are those matters that, in our assume responsibility to anyone other than the professional judgment, were of most significance in our company and the companys members as a body, for audit of the financial statements of the current period our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we and include the most significant assessed risks of have formed.
material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those that Conclusions relating to principal risks, going had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: concern and viability statement the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing We have nothing to report in respect of the following the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters information in the annual report, in relation to which the were addressed in the context of our audit of the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have financial statements as a whole, and in forming our anything material to add or draw attention to: opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages opinion on these matters.
36 to 37 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: 38 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Key Audit Matters How the matter was addressed in the audit Property, plant and equipment and Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: associated impairment review together with Assessing the accounting policy and disclosures for compliance onerous lease provisions with IFRS as adopted by the EU: Testing the arithmetical accuracy and integrity of the underlying As explained in Note 13 management have data, by checking the consistency of the formulas and agreeing inputs produced an annual impairment assessment to supporting documentation including lease agreements and historic for property plant and equipment in line with profit figures and the fixed asset register: IAS 36.
The process for measuring and Challenging the model prepared by management for the recognising impairment under IAS 36: assessment of the impairment of each pub and an assessment of Impairment of assets is complex and requires current trading for each pub, considering local market conditions: significant judgment.
Obtaining corroborative evidence to support the judgments used for high risk pubs: Each individual pub is treated as a separate Using our valuation experts to assess the reasonableness of the cash-generating unit for impairment purposes, discount rate applied to cash flows, which included benchmarking to and assumptions include managements comparative companies and market information: assessment of the trading activity of each pub Ensuring all pubs were appropriately considered in the onerous and the determination of the appropriate lease provision calculation, by reference to managements process to discount rate.
identify pubs that could be potentially subject to onerous leases and recalculating the provision: The provision for onerous leases is based on Assessing the appropriateness of the discount rate applied to the the pubs identified for impairment review onerous lease provision, by reference to the cost of debt to the entity processes.
in line with IAS 37: We have therefore identified the impairment of Validating underlying data used in the onerous lease calculation.
property, plant and equipment and onerous The Companys accounting policy for impairment and onerous leases lease provisions as a significant risk, which is shown on page 32 and related disclosures are included in respect was one of the most significant assessed risks of impairment in Note 13 and onerous leases in Note 22. of material misstatement.
Key observations As a result of the audit procedures performed and after considering managements disclosures of judgments applied by them, we have concluded that the impairment charge recognised of 6.90m and the reversal recognised of 3.31m has been stated appropriately and in accordance with the relevant accounting standards.
We are also satisfied that the onerous lease provision is appropriate.
The classification of exceptional items Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: The risk of management override of controls Assessing items included as exceptional in the financial relates to judgmental areas within the annual statements, and discussing with management as to the rationale for report.
The key judgments are highlighted on this classification: page 32 of the annual report and exceptional Ensuring that managements classification of exceptional items is items is flagged as one of these areas.
consistent with prior year: Exceptional items includes impairments, Challenging management around the classification of gains and onerous leases both considered as part of the losses in relation to the continuing pub disposal programme: Key Audit Matter above and costs associated Testing of a sample of items classified as exceptional to agree to with the pub disposal programme, which is in supporting documentation, including completion statements and line with previous years.
There are a number of invoice: key judgments around the disposal programme Reviewing disclosures in respect of exceptional items to ensure including, when is it ending, which pubs are these provide clear and adequate information for the users of the ring-fenced as being within the programme and financial statements.
whether it is part of a oneoff strategic exit The Companys accounting policy for exceptional items is included on from underperforming pubs.
page 32 and relevant disclosures are included within Note 4.
Given the high levels of judgment included within this classification, we therefore identified Key observations the classification of exceptional items as a From our audit procedures, we have concluded that managements significant risk, which was one of the most classification of exceptional items is appropriate and consistent with significant assessed risks of material prior years.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 39 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Key Audit Matters How the matter was addressed in the audit Comparative restatement of historic Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: deferred tax liabilities Understanding the origin and basis of the adjustment and discussing with management the process they undertook to validate Following the year end, management the quantum of the adjustment: performed an exercise to investigate Utilising our tax experts to challenge the judgments included in the fluctuations in the total tax charge and, as a adjustment, namely the proportion of the companys assets that are consequence, identified that the deferred tax allowance for capital allowance purposes: liability as at 30 July 2017 was overstated by Agreeing a sample of assets in the calculation to supporting 29.6m.
This overstatement has been evidence to ensure the written down values included by management attributed to the historical calculation of capital were valid: allowance differences between the qualifying Confirming the arithmetic accuracy of all formulas included in the book value and the qualifying tax written down calculations: value.
Considering the disclosures relating to the adjustment for Following management informing us of this compliance with IAS 8 and a third balance sheet in accordance with matter, we upgraded this to a significant risk IAS 1. area after the issue of our Audit Plan given the quantum of the adjustment and the judgment Disclosures around this restatement can be found in Note 7. involved in the identification and calculation of Key observations percentages for allowable assets.
We found that the assumptions used by management in arriving at the prior year adjustment were appropriate and we found no errors in the calculation.
The disclosure is in line with IAS 1, involving the restatement of the July 2017 Balance Sheet and Income Statement, as well as the July 2016 Balance Sheet.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality in determining the nature, timing and extent of our audit work and in evaluating the results of that work.
Materiality was determined as follows: Materiality measure Company Financial statements as a whole 5.3 million 2017: 5.1 million, which is 4.95% 2017: 5% of the Companys profit before tax and exceptional items.
This was calculated as 5% of a pro-rated interim profit before tax and exceptional items figure.
This benchmark is considered the most appropriate because this is a key measure reported to investors on financial performance.
Performance materiality used to drive the Materiality for the current period is higher than the level determined extent of our testing for the period ended 30 July 2017 to reflect that the Companys revenue has increased significantly in the period because of organic growth.
Specific materiality 60% of financial statement materiality.
Communication of misstatements to the audit We determined a lower level of materiality of 10,000 for certain committee specific areas being directors remuneration and related party transactions.
An overview of the scope of our audit discussions with management, internal audit and This was our first year as auditor, and we carried out operational teams, including visits to the National the professional handover procedures from our Distribution Centre in Daventry and ten pubs around predecessor auditors in line with the ISAs UK, noting the country in order to perform stock counts and to that there were no significant changes in the business obtain a detailed understanding of the operations of the since the prior year.
Our audit approach was based on business.
Our audit has been carried out in line with a thorough understanding of the Companys business the agreed audit plan aside from the upgrading of and is risk based, undertaking substantive testing on deferred tax to a significant risk based on the prior year significant transactions and material account balances.
restatement which is included as a Key Audit Matter We have formulated our risk assessment based on above.
40 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Other information the information about internal control and risk The directors are responsible for the other information.
management systems in relation to financial reporting The other information comprises the information processes and about share capital structures, given in included in the annual report, other than the financial compliance with rules 7.2.
6 in the Disclosure statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our Rules and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by opinion on the financial statements does not cover the the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is other information and, except to the extent otherwise consistent with the financial statements and has been explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any prepared in accordance with applicable legal form of assurance conclusion thereon.
requirements: and information about the companys corporate In connection with our audit of the financial statements, governance code and practices and about its our responsibility is to read the other information and, administrative, management and supervisory bodies in doing so, consider whether the other information is and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
3 materially inconsistent with the financial statements or and 7.2.
our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such Matter on which we are required to report under the material inconsistencies or apparent material Companies Act 2006 misstatements, we are required to determine whether In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the there is a material misstatement in the financial company and its environment obtained in the course of statements or a material misstatement of the other the audit, we have not identified material information.
If, based on the work we have performed, misstatements in: we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the strategic report or the directors report: or the other information, we are required to report that the information about internal control and risk fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures, given in In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the FCA to our responsibility to specifically address the following Rules.
items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other Matters on which we are required to report by information where we conclude that those items meet exception the following conditions: We have nothing to report in respect of the following Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 44 the statement given by the directors that they requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: consider the annual report and financial statements adequate accounting records have not been kept, or taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable returns adequate for our audit have not been received and provides the information necessary for from branches not visited by us: or shareholders to assess the Companys performance, the financial statements and the part of the directors business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or with the accounting records and returns: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 56 to 57 certain disclosures of directors remuneration the section describing the work of the audit specified by law are not made: or committee does not appropriately address matters we have not received all the information and communicated by us to the audit committee: or explanations we require for our audit.
Directors statement of compliance with the UK Responsibilities of directors for the financial Corporate Governance Code set out on page 54 the statements parts of the directors statement required under the As explained more fully in the Statement of directors Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with responsibilities set out on page 44, the directors are the UK Corporate Governance Code containing responsible for the preparation of the financial provisions specified for review by the auditor in statements and for being satisfied that they give a true accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not and fair view, and for such internal control as the properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision directors determine is necessary to enable the of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
preparation of financial statements that are free from Our opinions on other matters prescribed by the material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Companies Act 2006 are unmodified In preparing the financial statements, the directors are In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration responsible for assessing the Companys ability to report to be audited has been properly prepared in continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, accordance with the Companies Act 2006. matters related to going concern and using the going the information given in the strategic report and the concern basis of accounting unless the directors either directors report for the financial year for which the intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, financial statements are prepared is consistent with the or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
financial statements and those reports have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 41 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Reporting Councils website at: financial statements www.
This description Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance forms part of our auditors report.
about whether the financial statements as a whole are Other matters which we are required to address free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud We were appointed by the Board on 9 November 2017 or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes after going through an audit tender process in the our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of summer of 2017.
The period of total uninterrupted assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit engagement including previous renewals and conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always reappointments of the firm is less than one year.
detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, Standard were not provided to the Company and we they could reasonably be expected to influence the remain independent of the Company in conducting our economic decisions of users taken on the basis of audit.
Non-audit services provided to the Company these financial statements.
have been disclosed within note 2 to the financial statements on page 13.
We are responsible for obtaining reasonable assurance that the financial statements taken as a whole are free Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud to the audit committee.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that material misstatements of the financial statements may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned Mark Henshaw and performed in accordance with the ISAs UK.
Our Senior Statutory Auditor audit approach is a risk-based approach and is for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP explained more fully in the An overview of the scope of Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants our audit section of our audit report.
London A further description of our responsibilities for the audit 13 September 2018 of the financial statements is located on the Financial 42 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
