Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC Opinion on financial statements ofWhitbread PLC Summary of our audit approach In our opinion: the financial statements give a true Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current and fair view of the state of the year were: groups and of the parent companys valuation of the pension obligation: affairs as at 1 March 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: presentation of non-underlying items: and the group financial statements have implementation of new finance systems.
been properly prepared in accordance Within this report, any new key audit matters are with International Financial Reporting identified with and any key audit matters which are Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the same as the prior year identified with.
European Union: the parent company financial Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements have been properly statements was 27.3m which was determined on the prepared in accordance with United basis of 5% of profit before tax.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on all Reduced Disclosure Framework: and significant trading entities at both Premier Inn and Costa, and the Group head office.
The locations the financial statements have been represent the principal business units and account prepared in accordance with the for 99% of the Groups revenue, 99% of the Groups requirements of the Companies Act profit before tax and 99% of the Groups net assets.
2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the Significant Our approach is consistent with the previous year IAS Regulation.
changes in with the exception of the key audit matter relating our approach to manual adjustments to revenue which has been We have audited the financial removed in the current period as this had a lower statements of Whitbread PLC the effect on the allocation of resources following the parent company and its subsidiaries implementation of the new financial system in Premier the Group which comprise: Inn during the year.
the consolidated income statement: Given the current implementation of, and ongoing the consolidated statement of investment in new finance systems, we have included comprehensive income: a key audit matter surrounding the implementation of new finance systems, due to the complexity and the consolidated and parent company allocation of resources to this matter during the year.
statements of changes in equity: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: have fulfilled our other ethical Basis for opinion responsibilities in accordance with We conducted our audit in accordance the consolidated cash flow statement: these requirements.
We confirm with International Standards on Auditing the statement of accounting policies: that the non-audit services prohibited UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
and by the FRCs Ethical Standard were Our responsibilities under those not provided to the group or the standards are further described in the the related notes 1 to 30. parent company.
auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of The financial reporting framework that We believe that the audit evidence our report.
has been applied in the preparation we have obtained is sufficient and of the group financial statements is We are independent of the group and appropriate to provide a basis for applicable law and IFRSs as adopted the parent company in accordance with our opinion.
The financial the ethical requirements that are reporting framework that has been relevant to our audit of the financial applied in the preparation of the parent statements in the UK, including the company financial statements is FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to applicable law and United Kingdom listed public interest entities, and we Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 93 Governance Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC continued Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement on page 91 about whether they considered it We confirm that we appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their have nothing material identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do to report, add or draw so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
attention to in respect of these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent We confirm that we with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in have nothing material the evaluation of the directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue to report, add or draw as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect attention to in relation to: of these matters.
the disclosures on pages 52-55 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 52 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 52 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 94 Governance Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters whether or not due to fraud that we These matters were addressed that, in our professional judgement, identified.
These matters included those in the context of our audit of the were of most significance in our audit of which had the greatest effect on: the financial statements as a whole, and the financial statements of the current overall audit strategy, the allocation of in forming our opinion thereon, and period and include the most significant resources in the audit: and directing the we do not provide a separate opinion assessed risks of material misstatement efforts of the engagement team.
Valuation of the pension obligation Key audit matter As described in the Audit Committee report on page 68, the Accounting Policies note 2 and the description Retirement Benefits note note 29, the Group has a defined benefit pension scheme, which is closed to new members and to future accrual.
On page 114 the defined benefit plan is disclosed as a key source of estimation uncertainty.
As at 1 March 2018, the Group recorded a net retirement benefit obligation of 288.6m 2017: 425.1m, comprising liabilities of 2,683.9m 2017: 2,808.2m and scheme assets of 2,395.3m 2017: 2,383.1m.
The principal reasons for the decrease in the obligation were changes in the mortality assumptions and contributions from the employer.
The pension valuation is dependent on market conditions and key assumptions made, in particular relating to the discount rate, inflation expectations and life expectancy assumptions.
The setting of these assumptions is complex and requires the exercise of significant management judgement with the support of third-party actuaries.
The defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in the assumptions.
As such, it continues to represent a key audit matter.
How the scope To address this key audit matter, we have performed the following procedures: of our audit obtained the pension report prepared by a qualified actuary which is engaged by the Group responded to the to value the schemes defined benefit pension position under IAS 19 Employee benefits and key audit matter assessed the competence and objectivity of that actuary: engaged our internal actuarial specialists to assess the appropriateness of the assumptions used to account for the defined benefit scheme.
This included comparison of key data with market benchmarks and challenge of the methodology used by the scheme actuary: considered whether each of the key assumptions was reasonable in isolation and collectively in determining the pension liability at the balance sheet date: and reviewed the sensitivity analysis performed by management on the key assumptions determined by the Directors.
Key observations From the work completed, we are satisfied that the methodology and assumptions applied in relation to determining the valuation of the defined benefit obligation are appropriate.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 95 Governance Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC continued Presentation of non-underlying items Key audit matter As described in the Audit Committee report on page 68 and the Accounting Policies note 2, the description presentation of income and costs as non-underlying items in the Income Statement to derive Underlying profit before tax is judgmental and not a requirement of IFRS.
Judgement is exercised by management in determining the classification of items as non-underlying and there is potential for manipulation of the underlying profit before tax measure.
In the current year, adjustments totaling 42.3m 2017: 49.8m have been made to statutory profit before tax to derive underlying profit before tax of 590.7m 2017: 565.2m.
The definition of nonunderlying items is described in the Accounting Policies Note 2 and the reconciliation between statutory profit before tax and underlying profit before tax is included in note 6 to the financial statements.
The most significant items classified as non-underlying are as follows: Disposal of property, plant and equipment PPE and property provisions net charge of 16.3m which includes gains on disposal of assets of 20.3m, impairment of PPE net of reversals of 22.0m and property provisions 15.2m: I AS 19 pension finance costs of 10.0m: I T asset impairment of 9.1m: and UK and international restructuring costs of 7.2m.
How the scope We have performed the following procedures to address this key audit matter: of our audit challenged and understood managements rationale for including certain items outside profit responded to the before tax, including assessing the consistency of adjustments with the prior year and key audit matter compliance with the Groups accounting policy.
assessed the completeness of items separately identified as non-underlying through an examination of costs and income recorded during the year to determine whether items had been omitted from the non-underlying category: and assessed the disclosure of the accounting policy for non-underlying items, description of the items classified as non-underlying and the reconciliation between statutory profit before tax and underlying profit before tax.
This was performed in the context of recent regulatory guidance, ensuring the purpose of using alternative performance measures was set out and that they were clearly defined, consistent over time and included appropriate reconciliations to statutory financial information.
Key observations From the work performed, we are satisfied that the items included within non-underlying have been appropriately presented in line with the definition included within the accounting policies and are consistent with the prior year.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 96 Governance Implementation of new finance systems Key audit matter As noted within the Strategic Report, over the last two and a half years, Whitbread has undergone description a significant investment programme to improve the core infrastructure, internal and customer facing support systems.
As part of this programme, the core finance system is being replaced as part of the transformation of business processes and controls.
The finance system was replaced in Premier Inn during 2017 18 and is due to be implemented in Costa during 2018 19.
IT systems and controls are critical in a high volume, low value transactional business.
The level and complexity of change in the year, and continued change expected in 2018 19 has resulted in, and will continue to require, a significant amount of audit effort to gain assurance over the Groups IT and control environment and financial reporting systems.
Due to the transition of the finance system within Premier Inn taking place part way through the year, testing has been performed in respect of both the legacy and new systems, increasing the level of audit effort required.
How the scope of We have performed the following procedures, together with our IT specialists, to address this key our audit audit matter: responded to the assessed the Groups transformation programme and the planned enhancements to the IT key audit matter environment and business processes, with a particular focus on the replacement of core finance systems: assessed and tested the programme governance and managements change management process for each key area of change: tested the migration of data between the legacy and new system: u nderstood and tested the changes to business processes and relevant controls implemented as part of the new finance system during the year: assessed the design and implementation of the Groups controls over the information systems that are important to financial reporting in both the legacy and new finance systems: and tested operating effectiveness of internal controls within business cycles for example, revenue and expenditure where controls reliance has been sought in both the legacy and new finance systems.
Key observations We found managements procedures to implement the new finance system in Premier Inn to be appropriate.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 97 Governance Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude Group financial statements Parent company financial of misstatement in the financial statements statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably Materiality 27.3m 2017: 26.0m 10.9m 2017: 1.3m knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use Basis for 5% of profit before tax of Materiality was determined on materiality both in planning the scope of determining 548.4m 2017: 515.4m was the basis of the Parent our audit work and in evaluating the materiality used to determine our Companys net assets.
This was results of our work.
materiality in the current year.
then capped at 40% of Group Based on our professional judgement, materiality.
This materiality we determined materiality for the equates to 4.6% of net assets.
financial statements as a whole as follows: Rationale Profit before tax is a key metric In the prior year materiality for forthe for the users of the financial the Parent Company was benchmark statements and based on our based on profit before tax.
The applied professional judgement, we entity is non-trading and considered this to be the most contains an investment in all of appropriate measure for the groups trading business performance.
The use components and as a result, of profit before tax is we have determined materiality consistent with the prior year.
on the basis of net assets for the current year.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.3m 2017: 1.3m for the Group, as well as Group materiality m differences below that threshold that, in m our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure Component matters that we identified when materiality range assessing the overall presentation of the m to m financial statements.
Audit Committee reporting threshold m PBT Group materiality Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 98 Governance An overview of the scope of our audit aggregated financial information Fair, balanced and understandable Our Group audit was scoped by of the remaining components not the statement given by the obtaining an understanding of the subject to audit or audit of specified directors that they consider the Group and its environment, including account balances.
annual report and financial Group-wide controls and assessing the statements taken as a whole is fair, The Group audit team followed a risks of material misstatement at the balanced and understandable and collaborative approach with the Group level.
provides the information necessary component teams.
We held planning for shareholders to assess the Based on that assessment, we focused briefings, attended by the component groups position and performance, our Group audit scope primarily auditors from each of the locations business model and strategy, is on the audit work at the two primary discussed above, at which we discussed materially inconsistent with our components: Premier Inn UK and Costa developments in the Group relevant to knowledge obtained in the audit: or UK.
In the prior year, full scope audits our audit, including risk assessment and for Costa Poland and Costa Shanghai audit procedures to respond to the risks Audit committee reporting the were also completed for the purposes identified.
The Group audit team were section describing the work of the Group audit.
Given the relative included in the component closing of the audit committee does not size of these components and our meetings and reviewed the findings appropriately address matters understanding of the Group, it has of their work.
communicated by us to the audit not been necessary to perform these committee: or Other information procedures in the current year.
These Directors statement of compliance We have nothing to report in respect were subject to a full audit where the with the UK Corporate Governance of the following matters: extent of our testing was based on our Code the parts of the directors assessment of the risks of material The directors are responsible for statement required under the Listing misstatement and of the materiality the other information.
The other Rules relating to the companys of the Groups operations at those information comprises the information compliance with the UK Corporate locations.
These locations represent the included in the annual report, other Governance Code containing principal business units and together than the financial statements and provisions specified for review by account for 99% 2017: 99% of the our auditors report thereon.
the auditor in accordance with Groups revenue, 99% 2017: 101% Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not Our opinion on the financial of the Groups profit before tax and 99% properly disclose a departure from statements does not cover the other 2017: 97% of the Groups net assets.
a relevant provision of the UK information and, except to the extent They were also selected to provide an Corporate Governance Code.
otherwise explicitly stated in our appropriate basis for undertaking audit report, we do not express any form work to address the risk of material Responsibilities of directors of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our work As explained more fully in the directors was executed at levels of materiality responsibilities statement, the directors In connection with our audit of the applicable to each individual entity are responsible for the preparation of financial statements, our responsibility which were lower than Group materiality the financial statements and for being is to read the other information and, in and, excluding the Parent Company satisfied that they give a true and fair doing so, consider whether the other disclosed previously, ranged from view, and for such internal control as information is materially inconsistent 17.7m to 23.2m 2017: 13m to 21m.
the directors determine is necessary with the financial statements or our to enable the preparation of financial knowledge obtained in the audit or statements that are free from material Profit otherwise appears to be materially before Net misstatement, whether due to fraud misstated.
Revenue tax assets or error.
m m m If we identify such material 3,283.8 530.2 2,761.9 In preparing the financial statements, inconsistencies or apparent material Full scope 2017: 2017: 2017: the directors are responsible for misstatements, we are required audit 3,076.6 522.3 2,441.0 assessing the groups and the parent to determine whether there is a companys ability to continue as a 11.3 18.2 40.6 material misstatement in the financial Analytical 2017: 2017: 2017: going concern, disclosing as applicable, statements or a material misstatement procedures 29.4 6.9 83.8 matters related to going concern and of the other information.
If, based on 3,295.1 548.4 2,802.5 using the going concern basis of Total the work we have performed, we 2017: 2017: 2017: accounting unless the directors either conclude that there is a material 3,106.0 515.4 2,524.8 intend to liquidate the group or the misstatement of this other information, parent company or to cease operations, we are required to report that fact.
or have no realistic alternative but to In this context, matters that we At the parent entity level we also tested do so.
are specifically required to report the consolidation process and carried to you as uncorrected material out analytical procedures to confirm our misstatements of the other conclusion that there were no significant information include where we risks of material misstatement of the conclude that: Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 99 Governance Governance Independent auditors report to the members of Whitbread PLC continued Auditors responsibilities for the audit In our opinion, based on the work Other matters of the financial statements undertaken in the course of the audit: Auditor tenure Our objectives are to obtain reasonable Following the recommendation of the the information given in the strategic assurance about whether the financial audit committee, we were appointed by report and the directors report for the statements as a whole are free from the Directors on 16 June 2015 to audit financial year for which the financial material misstatement, whether due to the financial statements for the year statements are prepared is consistent fraud or error, and to issue an auditors ending 3 March 2016 and subsequent with the financial statements: and report that includes our opinion.
The period of total Reasonable assurance is a high level of uninterrupted engagement including the strategic report and the directors assurance, but is not a guarantee that an previous renewals and reappointments report have been prepared in audit conducted in accordance with of the firm is 3 years, covering the years accordance with applicable legal ISAs UK will always detect a material ending 3 March 2016 to 1 March 2018. requirements.
Consistency of the audit report with Misstatements can arise from fraud or In the light of the knowledge and the additional report to the audit error and are considered material if, understanding of the group and of the committee individually or in the aggregate, they parent company and their environment Our audit opinion is consistent with the could reasonably be expected to obtained in the course of the audit, we additional report to the audit committee influence the economic decisions of have not identified any material we are required to provide in users taken on the basis of these misstatements in the strategic report or accordance with ISAs UK.
A further description of our Matters on which we are required to responsibilities for the audit of the report by exception financial statements is located on the We have nothing to report in respect Financial Reporting Councils website at: of these matters.
Nicola Mitchell FCA Adequacy of explanations received This description forms part of our Senior statutory auditor and accounting records auditors report.
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Under the Companies Act 2006 Use of our report Statutory Auditor we are required to report to you if, This report is made solely to the London, UK in our opinion: companys members, as a body, in 24 April 2018 we have not received all the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of information and explanations we the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit require for our audit: or work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members adequate accounting records have not those matters we are required to state to been kept by the parent company, or them in an auditors report and for no returns adequate for our audit have other purpose.
To the fullest extent not been received from branches not permitted by law, we do not accept or visited by us: or assume responsibility to anyone other the parent company financial than the company and the companys statements are not in agreement with members as a body, for our audit work, the accounting records and returns.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory Directors remuneration requirements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are Opinions on other matters prescribed also required to report if in our opinion by the Companies Act 2006 certain disclosures of directors In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration have not been made or remuneration report to be audited has the part of the directors remuneration been properly prepared in accordance report to be audited is not in agreement with the Companies Act 2006. with the accounting records and returns.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 100
