Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 4 February 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the 53 week period the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated balance sheet and Company balance sheet as at 4 February 2018: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated cash flow statement: the consolidated statement of changes in equity: the Company statement of changes in equity for the 53 week period then ended: the general information: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 1.6 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 30 January 2017 to 4 February 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Areas of focus Overall Group materiality: 18.7m 2017: 16.9m, based Impairment of property, plant and on 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Overall Company materiality: 16.8m 2017: 16.0m, based Onerous property contracts Materiality on the amount of component materiality allocated Group and Company.
to the Company as part of the Group audit.
Commercial income and manual promotional funding Group Audit scope and Company.
We identified two reporting units, Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC and Safeway Stores Limited, which Impairment of intangible assets Audit scope in our view, required a full scope audit based on their Group and Company.
In addition, we determined that certain Stock valuation Group and Company.
account balances of a further four reporting units were Pension accounting in the scope of our Group audit to address specific risk Group and Company.
characteristics or to provide sufficient overall Group Areas of coverage of particular financial statement line items.
focus The Group engagement team performed the audit procedures for each reporting unit in the scope of our Group audit, which accounted for 99% of total Group revenue and 84% of profit before tax.
Our audit scope provided sufficient appropriate audit evidence as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
55 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Independent auditors report continued Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation and UK tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with, and reports to, the regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisers, enquiries of management and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Value in use Impairment of property, plant and equipment We have obtained the Groups approved budget upon which forecasts Refer to page 69 sources of estimation uncertainty, note 3.1 accounting policies underlying the value in use calculations are based.
Our audit procedures included and note 3.3 property, plant and equipment.
an assessment of managements discounted cash flow models.
We tested the The Group has a large freehold store estate 5,770m at 4 February 2018. mathematical accuracy of the calculations derived from each forecast model Given the challenging trading conditions in the UK grocery retail market in recent and assessed key inputs in the calculations, such as the discount rate of 9%, years and the subsequent adverse impact on the market value of traditional by reference to managements forecasts, industry reports and our valuation supermarket freehold stores, the possibility of impairment of these assets and experts.
We focused on these key assumptions because small changes can the related trading assets is an area of focus for management, as is the possibility have a material impact on the value in use assessment and any resultant that previously charged impairments may need reversing where store trading impairment charge.
We found, based on our audit work, that the key assumptions conditions have improved.
used by management were supportable and appropriate in light ofthe current environment.
We focused on this area because of the judgemental factors involved in testing for impairment and the significant carrying value of freehold property.
Fair value less costs of disposal Management considers each store to be a cash generating unit CGU and has Management has determined its own view of estimated rental values and yields calculated the recoverable amount of each CGU as the higher of value in use for each store used in their calculation of market values.
Management derived and fair value less costs of disposal.
these assumptions having considered available information such as industry data on market conditions, purchase offers recently received for properties and Value in use information from an independent third party valuer.
We evaluated managements Value in use is based on discounted future cash flow forecasts, requiring supporting information, and assessed this using our own internal experts, with a management to make judgements on certain key inputs including, for example, particular focus on the assumptions and methodology used, obtaining third party discount rates and long-term growth rates.
evidence and market data to corroborate the assumptions.
We determined that Fair value less costs of disposal the valuations performed by management were reasonable.
Fair value less costs of disposal is estimated by management based on their Disclosures knowledge of individual stores, likely demand from grocers or other retailers in the In addition, we evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures made in note 3.3 of event those stores were for sale and also informed by a valuation performed by the financial statements, including those regarding the key assumptions and a third party valuer.
The key judgements made by the Directors in this fair value sensitivities to changes in such assumptions by comparing the disclosures against calculation relate to the estimated rental values and the yields of the stores.
the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of assets and found them Management has calculated that an impairment charge of 118m is required as to be consistent.
A release of impairment charged in previous years of 126m has also been calculated following an improvement in the performance of certain stores.
56 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Onerous lease provisions Onerous lease provisions and onerous property contracts Having considered the possibility of impairment in the value of freehold properties Refer to page 69 sources of estimation uncertainty, note 5.1 accounting policies see above, we also tested managements calculations in respect of leasehold and note 5.5 provisions.
stores where the estimated future benefits are not expected to exceed the future Onerous lease provisions lease commitments, resulting in an onerous lease.
Accounting standards require management to assess the Groups leasehold We obtained managements onerous lease model, which includes all leased stores, properties to identify where the expected future benefits from a property are less and tested the accuracy and completeness of key data by agreeing inputs such than the future lease commitments which would indicate that an onerous lease as individual store cash flows.
This helps provide an insight into store profitability.
Under IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent We agreed lease expiry dates for a sample of stores to the original signed lease assets such a provision is made for the unavoidable costs of the contract, defined agreements, noting no issues.
in the standard as the least net cost of exit.
We obtained the Groups approved budget upon which forecasts are based We focused on this area because of the judgements required to be made by and assessed the principles of the Groups discounted cash flow model, noting management in identifying those stores requiring an onerous lease provision and no exceptions.
We tested the mathematical accuracy of the calculation derived the assumptions used in the models, such as the discount rate and those used in from each forecast model and assessed key inputs in the calculations such as developing the associated cash flow forecasts.
We also note that management revenue growth and discount rate, by reference to managements forecasts, judgement is required to assess the level of provision for lease guarantees in analyst reports and our own valuation experts, with no issues noted.
respect of convenience stores previously disposed of.
Onerous property contracts We obtained managements calculation of the required provision for former The Group recognises a provision in respect of committed onerous property convenience store leases which reverted back to the Group in a prior year.
For example, where management believes that no economic benefit We assessed the principles of the model and tested key inputs such as lease would result from developing sites, a provision is made.
There are judgements commitment information and sub-let assumptions, with no issues noted.
involved in determining the expected realisable value of these sites and associated Onerous property contracts contract exit costs, therefore this has been an area of focus during our audit.
In respect of onerous property contracts, we obtained original contracts and managements calculations and considered the accuracy of these provisions by performing recalculations and testing key inputs such as estimates of contract exit costs, contractual payments due and by reviewing evidence of the status of any negotiations with landlords.
We considered the completeness of these provisions by reviewing documentation in relation to these contracts.
We found no issues in this area.
Disclosures We read the disclosures within the Annual Report in respect of onerous lease provisions and onerous property contracts, and, based on our work, determined that they are consistent with accounting standards.
57 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Independent auditors report continued Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Our audit work in respect of commercial income and the manual elements of Commercial income and manual promotional funding promotional funding comprised a combination of controls testing, substantive Refer to page 69 sources of estimation uncertainty, note 1.1 accounting policies testing of a sample of income and funding recognised during the period, and notes 1.6 operating profit.
testing of amounts recognised in the balance sheet and an assessment of the Commercial income Groups disclosures in this area.
Each element of our work is considered in more The Group has two categories of commercial income: marketing and advertising detail below.
funding, and volume-based rebates on purchases.
Controls testing Commercial income is recognised as a deduction from cost of sales and is Our controls work encompassed understanding, evaluating and testing earned over the period of the contractual agreements with individual suppliers, managements key controls in respect of the recognition of both commercial as disclosed in the Groups accounting policy on page 70.
The total income income and manual promotional funding.
These key controls included the recognised in the income statement in a year is based on the expected entitlement monitoring of invoices raised and the accuracy of confirmations from suppliers.
earned up to the balance sheet date under each supplier agreement.
It requires We found no significant deficiencies in these key controls, and our testing of management to apply judgement based on the contractual terms in place with managements key system controls contributed to our evidence in determining each of its suppliers, together with estimates of amounts the Group is entitled whether commercial income and manual promotional funding had been recorded to where transactions span the financial period end.
appropriately and in the correct period.
The relative level of judgement in each category of commercial income is Income statement testing considered below: We tested a sample of commercial income and the manual elements of promotional funding to supporting documentation including supplier agreements.
Commercial income marketing and advertising funding We requested confirmations directly from suppliers in respect of a sample of This income is varied with regards to the nature and timing of the activity to which commercial income and the manual elements of promotional funding across it relates, and is recognised in accordance with written agreements with suppliers.
The confirmations received, and documentation This income is based on specific agreements, and its recognition requires limited reviewed, allowed us to evaluate whether commercial income or the manual judgement or estimation by management in determining the amount that the elements of promotional funding had been appropriately recognised in the Group is entitled to.
Our focus was on assessing whether a written agreement period.
No exceptions arose from this work.
for the marketing and advertising funding existed, whether the relevant marketing or advertising had taken place and whether the income recognised was recorded We also analysed commercial income and the manual elements of promotional in the appropriate period.
funding recognised each month and compared it to the previous period to identify Commercial income volume-based rebates whether there were any unusual trends in the amounts or timing of commercial Volume-based rebates are driven by the Group achieving purchase volume targets income and the manual elements of promotional funding recognised in each set by individual suppliers for specific products over a predetermined period.
We used a data analytics approach to identify any unusual items in the There is therefore judgement involved in estimating the volume of purchases, commercial income and the manual elements of promotional funding populations.
particularly where rebate agreements span a financial period end.
In order to Where unusual items were identified these were agreed to supporting narrow this judgement, management endeavours to structure agreements to documentation without exception.
coincide with the Groups financial period end, thereby reducing or eliminating Balance sheet testing the degree of estimation.
In instances where the rebate agreement does not fully We wrote to a sample of suppliers, and obtained independent evidence of the coincide with the period end, the key judgement that we focused on was the value and timing of commercial income and the manual elements of promotional estimate of commercial income to be accrued at the period end.
funding to evaluate whether it had been recognised in the correct period.
We Promotional funding also agreed a sample of accrued income to evidence of post-year end invoicing.
The Group separately recognises promotional funding on promotions that are We performed cut-off procedures and credit note testing to provide further partially funded by suppliers.
evidence to support the timing of the recognition of both commercial income and the manual elements of promotional funding.
Cut-off work involved testing The majority of promotional funding is an automated deduction from cost a sample of commercial income and the manual elements of promotional funding of sales, triggered when a sale is recognised.
The funding is recognised when recognised both pre and post the period end and evaluating by reference to the transaction occurs in accordance with the terms of supplier agreements.
documentation from suppliers that the timing of recognition was appropriate.
The amount receivable is wholly based on sales volumes achieved, multiplied We found no issues as a result of our audit procedures.
by rates agreed with each supplier in advance.
There are some elements of promotional funding which include a manual element to the invoicing.
Our credit note testing focused on credit notes raised after the period end in order to identify any instances of commercial income or the manual elements We focused on the manual elements of promotional funding because of the of promotional funding being subsequently reversed.
We did not identify any significance of the amounts to the Groups gross profit, the significant number exceptions from this work.
We tested the recoverability of invoiced commercial of transactions and agreements in place with suppliers covering a range of periods, income and the manual elements of promotional funding unsettled balances the manual nature of the invoicing process and the industry-wide focus on this included within trade debtors in note 5.3 to the financial statements and where area of accounting.
the Group does not have the right of offset against trade creditors.
This testing was performed by assessing the ageing of both outstanding commercial income and the manual elements of promotional funding debtors together with understanding the details of any disputes, and obtained explanations from management to assess whether any provisions were appropriate.
We also considered managements commercial income and promotional funding Key Performance Indicators in this analysis.
Disclosures We read the disclosures within the Annual Report in respect of commercial income and manual promotional funding and, based on our work, determined that they are consistent with accounting standards and the guidance on the reporting of complex supplier arrangements issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
58 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We obtained managements assessment as to whether the development of new Impairment of intangible assets software or systems superseded or impaired any of the existing assets on the Refer to page 69 sources of estimation uncertainty, note 3.1 accounting policies balance sheet.
and note 3.2 goodwill and intangible assets.
We re-visited the expected costs budgeted by management within the cost The Group balance sheet includes intangible assets of 428m, of which the benefit analysis and compared them to actual outcomes in the current period majority relates to software development costs incurred in connection with and we assessed the future expected benefits of the projects, with no issues the Groups technology improvement programme, details of which are shown being identified from our work.
on pages 79 to 81 of the Annual Report.
We also applied our own understanding of both new and existing projects and We focused on this area because judgement is required to assess whether the considered whether, in our view, any existing software was no longer in use or carrying value of the existing capitalised software or systems is impaired.
whether its life had been shortened by development activity.
No material impairment of the intangible assets was identified from our work.
Disclosures We read the disclosures within the Annual Report in respect of intangible assets, and, based on our work, determined that they are consistent with accounting standards.
We attended stock counts and performed sample counts at a number of the Stock valuation Groups supermarkets and petrol forecourts throughout the period.
In addition Refer to page 69 sources of estimation uncertainty, note 5.1 accounting policies to performing sample test counts, we assessed the effectiveness of the count and note 5.2 stock.
controls in operation, with no material issues identified from our work.
The stock valuation of 686m 2017: 614m was focused on due to the nature of We also evaluated the results of cycle counts performed by management and judgements made by management when assessing the level of provisions required.
third parties through re-performance and inspection at a sample of distribution As disclosed in note 5.1, the stock valuation is reduced by commercial income centres throughout the period to assess the level of count variances.
We found and promotional funding as the stock which this income and or funding relates no material variances or count control deficiencies across these sites.
When the stock is sold, the commercial income and or promotional funding is recognised in the income statement.
We tested the unearned commercial income and promotional funding deduction by verifying the inputs of the calculation and methodology of the provision, The stock valuation is additionally reduced for provisions related to estimated noting no issues.
losses due to shrinkage, obsolescence and other known specific risks.
As stock is We tested managements shrinkage assumptions determined by the count counted by the Group on a cyclical basis, rather than in full at the period end date, procedures and the comparison of this to historical data.
The historical data the shrinkage provision at 4 February 2018 contains a degree of estimation.
included the results of the recent counts at each location, and our procedures did not identify any significant unusual fluctuations in the data.
The obsolescence provision is calculated by applying a judgemental percentage to the period end stock levels, with this judgement being informed by managements view of the current stock profile and expected stock life.
We considered this provision by assessing the explanations provided by management on the current profile and expected stock life noting no issues.
We have assessed the other specific provisions with reference to the risks identified by management and noted no issues.
Disclosures We read the disclosures within the Annual Report in respect of stock, and, based on our work, determined that they are consistent with accounting standards.
Pension accounting We obtained the IAS 19 valuation reports produced by the Groups actuaries.
Refer to page 69 sources of estimation uncertainty and note 8 pensions.
We used our own actuarial experts to assess the judgemental assumptions used within the reports to form the valuation of the pension schemes liabilities, such We have focused on the valuation of the Groups defined benefit pension as discount rate, inflation and mortality rates.
We obtained the detailed reports schemes because of the level of judgement required in determining the year end underlying the valuation of the schemes assets and agreed the valuations to valuation.
In addition, the size of the gross assets 4,857m and liabilities 4,263m third party confirmations.
We assessed the membership data used in valuing the within the schemes are significant and material.
schemes liabilities and tested any significant changes since the last valuation.
We agreed a sample of contributions made by the Group to bank statements.
We have no exceptions to report as a result of this testing.
The net surplus position of the schemes at 4 February 2018 was 594m.
We have reviewed managements assessment of the right to recognise the net surplus in two of the three schemes under the requirements of IFRIC 14, including inspecting updated legal advice, and are satisfied that it is appropriate to recognise the net asset on the balance sheet.
The third scheme RSP is recognised as a net liability and therefore this aspect of IFRIC 14 is not applicable.
Disclosures We read the disclosures within the Annual Report in respect of pensions, and, based on our work, determined that they are consistent with accounting standards.
59 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Independent auditors report continued Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a Group finance function at its head office in Bradford who are responsible for the Groups reporting units.
For each reporting unit we determined whether we required an audit of their reported financial information full scope, or whether certain account balances of reporting units were required to be in the scope of our Group audit to address specific risk characteristics or to provide sufficient overall Group coverage of particular financial statement line items.
A full scope audit was required for Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC and Safeway Stores Limited determined as financially significant because they individually contribute more than 15% of the Groups profit before tax.
We also considered that certain account balances of a further four reporting units were in the scope of our Group audit to address specific risk characteristics or to provide sufficient overall Group coverage of particular financial statement line items.
All of the audit procedures have been performed by the Group audit engagement team.
In aggregate, our audit procedures accounted for 99% of Group revenues and 84% of profit before tax.
In addition, the Group audit team performed analytical review procedures over a number of smaller reporting units.
This included an analysis of year-on-year movements, at a level of disaggregation to enable a focus on higher risk balances and unusual movements.
Those not subject to analytical review procedures were individually, and in aggregate, immaterial.
This gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 18.7m 2017: 16.9m.
How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax.
The amount of component materiality allocated to the Company as part of the Group audit.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark In our view, users focus on the consolidated results because, in our view, this is the most relevant metric of the Group rather than the individual results against which the performance of the Group is most of the Company, therefore we determined our commonly measured.
Underlying profit is defined by materiality in the overall context of the Group.
management as profit before impairment, onerous contracts and other items that do not relate to the Groups principal activities on an ongoing basis, profit loss arising on disposal and exit of properties and sale of investments and IAS 19 pension interest, at a normalised tax rate, as reconciled in note 1.4 of the Group financial statements.
For the two reporting units in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The materiality allocated to the two components was 16.8m.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.9m Group audit 2017: 0.8m and 0.8m Company audit 2017: 0.8m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect We have nothing material to add or to draw of the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors considered attention to.
However, because not all future it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial events or conditions can be predicted, this statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the and Companys ability to continue as a date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
60 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Investor information Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the period ended 4 February 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 23 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 26 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 54, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 34 to 37 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 61 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 18 Independent auditors report continued Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 54, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 5 June 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 1 February 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is four years, covering the years ended 1 February 2015 to 4 February 2018.
Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Leeds 13 March 2018 62
