GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC Report on the group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Wizz Air Holdings plcs group financial statements the financial statements : } give a true and fair view of the state of the group's affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: } have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and } have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 March 2018: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash flows, and the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality } Overall group materiality: 14.3 million 2017: 12.7 million, based on 5% of profit before tax.
Audit scope } The group financial statements are a consolidation of Wizz Air Holdings plc, the trading subsidiaries Wizz Air Hungary Kft, Wizz Tours Kft and a number of insignificant intermediate holding, small trading, dormant and ceased operation companies. }
The accounting for these entities and the group consolidation is largely centralised in Hungary where the majority of our audit work was performed. }
Our audit scope comprised an audit of Wizz Air Holdings plc and the complete financial information of Wizz Air Hungary Kft, being the significant component.
Key audit matters } Aircraft maintenance provisioning. }
The scope of our audit and our key audit matters We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 71 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Report on the group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Aircraft maintenance provisioning The group operates aircraft, which are held under We evaluated the integrity of the maintenance operating lease arrangements, and incurs liabilities provision system MPS and tested the for maintenance during the term of the lease.
This included assessing the Provisions arise from legal and contractual process by which the variable factors within the obligations relating to the condition of the aircraft provision were estimated, evaluating the when it is returned to the lessor.
The risk is that with reasonableness of the assumptions, testing the input the inherent level of management judgement data and re-performing calculations.
We found no required in calculating the amount of provision significant issues in the MPS input data or the together with the complexity of the calculation and calculated maintenance assets and provisions.
The the number of variable factors and assumptions, the basis for these calculations was found to be provision may be inaccurate, incomplete and consistent with prior periods and in line with the understated.
detailed accounting policy set out in Note 2.
Maintenance provisions of 150.7 million for aircraft We compared the cost assumptions in the MPS to maintenance costs in respect of operating leased recent invoices, inspected and approved aircraft are recorded in the financial statements at 31 maintenance plans as well as validated current flight March 2018 refer to Note 29 to the financial hours and flight cycles to non-financial data sources.
We found no material exceptions from these procedures and estimates.
For aircraft held under operating lease agreements, the group is contractually committed to either We read new or amended aircraft lease contracts return the aircraft in a certain condition or to and validated the updated MPS input data.
We compensate the lessor based on the actual condition found no material exceptions from these of the aircraft and its major components upon procedures.
Provision is made for the minimum unavoidable costs of specific future obligations created by the lease at the time when such obligation becomes certain.
This is when the respective aircraft component no longer meets the lease re-delivery conditions.
Commonly there is a warranty period for components at the start, during which no obligation arises: provisioning only commences after this warranty period.
At each balance sheet date, the calculation of the maintenance provision, derived from the maintenance provision system MPS, includes a number of variable factors and assumptions including: likely utilisation of the aircraft: the expected cost of the heavy maintenance check and the time it is expected to occur: the condition of the aircraft: and the lifespan of life-limited parts.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 72 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Report on the group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Key audit matters continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Hedge and derivative accounting The group uses derivative and non-derivative We evaluated the processes, procedures and natural hedges financial instruments to hedge controls in respect of the groups treasury and other transaction currency and jet fuel price risks.
The risk management functions which directly impact the is that because of their materiality to the financial relevant account balances and transactions.
We position of the group, the level of manual input in tested managements year-end account monitoring open, closed and settled derivatives and reconciliation process, including cut-off procedures.
the complexity of the requirements in order to apply The results of this work allowed us to focus on hedge accounting e. g. timely tailored substantiating the year-end positions recorded in the documentation, including details of how hedge financial statements.
We independently obtained effectiveness is monitored both prospectively and direct confirmations from each of the counterparties retrospectively, an error could result in a material to test the cut-off at the year end.
We found no misstatement to the financial statements.
material exceptions from these confirmations.
At 31 March 2018, derivative financial assets We assessed the appropriateness of hedge amounted to 34.1 million and derivative financial accounting for the derivative financial instruments liabilities were 13.7 million.
Further details are set and performed testing procedures over the hedge out in Notes 2, 3 and 20 to the financial statements.
documentation and effectiveness testing and noted The Directors review concluded that all no significant exceptions.
We tested, using requirements had been complied with and that the independent data-feeds, the fair values being amounts booked at 31 March 2018 are not materially ascribed to those instruments at the year end and misstated.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures in the financial statements in respect of derivative financial instruments.
We did not identify any significant issues with the measurement or presentation of the groups derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates.
The Group has two reporting segments which comprise the airline and tour operator businesses.
The airline segment consists of Wizz Air Holdings plc and its trading subsidiary Wizz Air Hungary Kft, which includes branch operations in base countries.
The Tour reporting segment consists of the Wizz Tours Kft operations which sells travel packages to external customers.
The airline segment contributes over 98% of profit before income tax.
Therefore, our audit scope comprised an audit of Wizz Air Holdings plc and the complete financial information of Wizz Air Hungary Kft, being the only significant components.
The accounting for these entities and the group consolidation is centralised in Hungary.
The audit is performed by a single engagement team comprising individuals based in the UK and in Hungary.
The operations are audited by applying their collective knowledge and understanding of the Group and its financial reporting processes and controls.
In addition to the standard audit work performed by the engagement team based in Hungary, the UK team members visited the Budapests management team three times during the audit cycle.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach, key audit matters and issues arising from our work.
The UK team members also attended the local clearance meeting in Hungary and all Audit Committee meetings in Switzerland, either in person or via telephone call.
This gave us the evidence we required for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 73 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Report on the group financial statements continued Our audit approach continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 14.3 million 2017: 12.7 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before income tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before income tax is the primary measure used by shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.7 million 2017: 0.6 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the draw attention to.
However, because financial statements about whether the directors considered it not all future events or conditions can appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in be predicted, this statement is not a preparing the financial statements and the directors identification guarantee as to the groups ability to of any material uncertainties to the groups ability to continue as a continue as a going concern.
going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We agreed to report if the directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 74 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Reporting on other information continued Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, ISAs UK require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or draw attention to regarding: } The directors confirmation on page 25 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. }
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated. }
The directors explanation on pages 66 and 67 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report in respect of this responsibility.
We agreed to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit.
We have nothing to report.
Other Code Provisions We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: } The statement given by the directors, on page 70, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group obtained in the course of performing our audit. }
The section of the Annual Report on pages 44 to 46 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee. }
The directors statement relating to the companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Directors Remuneration Report The company voluntarily prepares a Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
The directors have requested that we audit the part of the Directors Remuneration Report specified by the Companies Act 2006 to be audited as if the company were a UK Registered listed company.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 75 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WIZZ AIR HOLDINGS PLC CONTINUED Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 70, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Jersey Law 1991 exception reporting Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
David Snell for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor London, United Kingdom 23 May 2018 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 76 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 77
