Independent auditor's report Opinion Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018, which comprise the income statement, the statement of financial position, the statement of changes in equity, the cash flow statement, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In our opinion, the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of its return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 26 and 27 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation, set out on page 26 of the annual report, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement, set out on page 42 of the financial statements, about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement relating to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation, set out on page 42 of the annual report, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Overall materiality: 14,278,000, which represents approximately 1.8 per cent of the Company's net assets: The key audit matter identified was valuation and existence of investments: and Our audit approach was a risk-based substantive audit focused on the investment activities of the Company.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 57 Independent auditor's report CONTINUED Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those that had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter How the matter was addressed in the audit Valuation and existence of investments Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: Assessing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting In line with the Companys long-term objectives, it holds a significant policy on investment valuation in accordance with Financial portfolio of quoted and unquoted investments.
These investments Reporting Standard FRS 102 and its consistent application represent nearly 100 per cent of the Companys total assets.
Failure year on year: to maintain proper legal title of these assets could have a significant impact on the net asset value of the Company.
Obtaining confirmation of all investments held at the year end independent from the custodian to confirm the existence of the The valuation of unquoted investments can include judgements and investments at the year end: subjective estimates.
These include the valuation methodology to Confirming year-end holdings for a sample of unquoted be used and key input assumptions such as discount rates and investments directly with investee companies: probability weightings on possible outcome scenarios.
Agreeing the valuation of all quoted investments to an independent We therefore identified existence and valuation of quoted and source of market prices and considering whether these were unquoted investments as a significant risk, which was one of the quoted in an active market: most significant assessed risks of material misstatement.
Confirming the competence, capabilities and objectivity of the Companys AIFM and its valuation expert to prepare valuations of the Companys unquoted investments: and Using our own valuation specialists as auditors experts, we: 1 Assessed the appropriateness of the valuation models used and checked whether these were in accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Capital valuation guidelines and FRS 102 2 Challenged the Companys AIFM and its valuation expert on key input assumptions used in the valuations, such as the discount rates used, the probability weightings applied and potential outcome scenarios.
The Company's accounting policy on valuation of investments is shown in note 2 b to the financial statements and related disclosures are included in note 10 on pages 71 to 73.
The Audit Committee identified valuation of the investment portfolio, including the unquoted holdings, as a significant issue in its report on page 50 where the Audit Committee also described the action that it has taken to address this issue.
Key observations Our audit work did not identify any material misstatements concerning the valuation and existence of investments.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality in determining the nature, timing and extent of our work and in evaluating the results of that work.
We determined materiality for the audit of the financial statements as a whole to be 14,278,000, which is approximately 1.8 per cent of the Companys net assets.
This benchmark is considered the most appropriate because it is a key consideration in the evaluation of performance of the Company and is of primary interest to the users of the financial statements.
Materiality for the current year is higher than the level that we determined for the year ended 31 December 2017, due to an increase in net assets of the Company and an increase in benchmark percentage from 1 per cent in the prior year to 1.8 per cent in the current year, to reflect the changing portfolio composition of the Company in terms of valuation basis in the past few years.
58 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc We use a different level of materiality, performance materiality, to drive the extent of our testing and this was set at 75 per cent of financial statement materiality.
We also determine a lower level of specific materiality for certain areas such as investment income and Directors remuneration.
We determined the threshold at which we will communicate misstatements to the Audit Committee to be 713,900.
In addition, we will communicate misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit approach was a risk-based approach founded on a thorough understanding of the Company's business, its environment and risk profile.
As part of the engagement, we attended periodic Audit Committee meetings in order to document our understanding of the valuation and control review process, including corporate governance.
In addition, we documented and evaluated the design and implementation effectiveness of relevant processes and controls over the Companys significant transaction streams and balances.
This included those employed by each of the Companys AIFM and its Administrator as part of the investment valuation process.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 56 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting set out on page 49 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 45 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 are unmodified In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matter on which we are required to report under the Companies Act 2006 In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 59 Independent auditor's report CONTINUED adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 56, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
We are responsible for obtaining reasonable assurance that the financial statements taken as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that material misstatements of the financial statements may not be detected, even though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance with the ISAs UK.
Our audit approach is a risk-based approach and is explained more fully in the An overview of the scope of our audit section of our audit report.
As part of our work, we identified areas of laws and regulations, through discussion with the Directors and our industry experience, that could reasonably be expected to have a material impact on the financial statements.
Specifically, we looked at the Companys compliance with financial reporting standards as well as related company legislation and Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
We considered the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters that we are required to address We were appointed by the Board on 24 February 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is four years.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company and we remain independent of the Company in conducting our audit.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Who we are reporting to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Marcus Swales Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants London 4 April 2019 60 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Financial statements
