Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Workspace Group PLC 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We were appointed as Auditor by the Shareholders on 14 July 2017.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement We have audited the financial statements of Workspace Group PLC The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the one financial Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and the Company for the year ended 31 March 2018 which comprise year ended 31 March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the Consolidated and Parent Companys Balance Sheets, the under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key Other Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Cash applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were Flows, the Consolidated and Parent Companys Statement of prohibited by that standard were provided.
addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial Changes in Equity, and the related notes, including the accounting statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate policies on pages 146 to 183. opinion on these matters.
Overview Materiality: 22.0 million The risk Our response In our opinion: Group financial 0.9% of total Group assets the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Valuation of investment Subjective valuation Our procedures included: statements as a whole Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 property Group Investment properties is the largest balance in the Assessing valuers credentials: We assessed Lower materiality: 3.0 million and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Group: 2,288.7 million: financial statements and is held at fair value in the CBREs objectivity, professional qualifications components of 4.9% of profit before tax excluding fair the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 2017: 1,839.0 million Groups financial statements.
and experience through discussions with them adjusted trading profit value valuation movements and profit on accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as and reading their valuation report.
after interest disposals adopted by the European Union: Refer to page 105 Audit The portfolio is externally valued by qualified Methodology choice: We critically assessed the the Parent Company financial statements have been properly Committee Report, independent valuers, CBRE.
methodology used by the valuers by using our Coverage 100% of total Group assets prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including page 150 accounting policy own property valuation specialist to assist us in Risks of material misstatement FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and and page 161 financial Each property is unique and determining fair value considering whether the valuation report is in the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Recurring risk Valuation of investment property disclosures.
requires significant judgement and estimation, in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group particular over the key assumptions of the estimated Standards the Red Book, IFRS and that the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
rental value and the yield.
The key assumptions will valuation methodology adopted is appropriate Recurring risk Accounting for financial instruments be impacted by a number of factors including by reference to acceptable valuation practice.
Parent Basis for opinion location, quality and condition of the building and Benchmarking assumptions: With the assistance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards occupancy.
Valuing investment properties either of our own property valuation specialist, we held on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under development or with development potential discussions with CBRE to critically assess are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have can be further complicated by the need to assess movements in property values.
For a sample of obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our the likelihood of planning consent and an allowance properties selected using various criteria including audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
Whilst comparable market analysis of the value of a property as well as transactions can provide valuation evidence, the correlation with movements in market rent, we flexible office sector is still maturing and the unique evaluated and challenged as appropriate the key nature of each property means that a key factor in assumptions upon which these valuations were the property valuations are the assumptions made based, including those relating to forecast market by the valuer.
rents and yields, by making a comparison to our own understanding of the market.
Data capture Test of detail: We compared a sample of key Each property valuation includes source data inputs used in the valuations, such as rental provided by management and relied on as income and lease length to the Groups property accurate by the external valuer, primarily the management system and lease contracts.
The relatively short Test of detail: For a selection of properties under average lease length in the Workspace portfolio and development, we assessed the progress of the reduced market comparable information for such development and evaluated assumptions over flexible office space means the valuer is more reliant constructions costs, agreeing them to construction on tenancy data to support their market rent contracts and managements project appraisals.
assumptions than may be the case in other property Assessing transparency: We considered the sectors.
Therefore the valuation is more sensitive adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the to the source data than may be the case for more degree of estimation and sensitivity to key mature sectors with longer leases.
Further, given the assumptions made when valuing properties.
higher turnover of tenants, the valuers will have less working knowledge of the current tenancy position, Our results and less reason to question changes.
We found the valuation of investment properties to be acceptable.
140Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 141Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Workspace Group PLC continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope The risk Our response Group revenue of our audit Accounting for derivatives Accounting application Our procedures included: Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set Parent The Parent Company has derivative financial Test of detail: We agreed the carrying value of at 22.1 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of total Refer to page 150 instruments of 2.5 million 2017: 12.1 million.
derivatives to valuations obtained directly from assets of which it represents 0.9%.
accounting policy The cash flow hedge is against a $100 million 64.5 counter-party valuers.
and page 167 million loan 2017: $100 million 64.5 million.
Reperformance: In addition, we engaged our In addition, we applied materiality of 3.0 million to Group financial disclosures.
internal specialists who performed independent components of adjusted trading profit after interest as defined The Parent Company has a cross currency swap valuations using independent market data.
by the Group on page 35 which comprises net rental income, to ensure the US Dollar liability streams generated Accounting analysis: We assessed whether the administrative expenses and net finance costs for which we believe from the US Dollar Notes are fully hedged into classification and accounting of the cash flow 100% misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial Sterling for the life of the transaction.
Through hedge was appropriate in addition to reviewing statements as a whole could be reasonably expected to influence entering into the cross currency swap, the Parent whether the changes in fair value are correctly the Companys members assessment of the financial performance Company has created a synthetic Sterling fixed rate classified within other comprehensive income.
100 The swaps have been externally valued and are Our results Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole designated as a cash flow hedge with changes in fair We consider derivatives to be accounted for was set at 21.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark value dealt with in other comprehensive income.
of Company net assets, of which it represents 3.1%.
The valuations of the swaps are based on market We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or Group profit before tax movements which can fluctuate in the year.
It is not uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.7 million Group, at a high risk of significant misstatement or subject 0.6 million Parent Company or 0.15 million for misstatements to significant judgement.
However, due to their relating to procedures performed to the lower materiality, in addition materiality in the context of the Parent Company to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on financial statements, this is considered to be the area qualitative grounds that had the greatest effect on our overall Parent Company audit.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
100% The Group team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
The audit was performed using the materiality levels set out above.
100 Total Group assets Group materiality Group total assets 2,339.2m 2017: 1,897.1m 22.0m 22.0m Whole financial statements materiality 100% 3.0m Materiality applied to Group components of adjusted trading profit after interest 100 0.7m Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee Total assets Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 Group materiality 142Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 143Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Independent Auditors Report to the members of Workspace Group PLC continued 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we Irregularities ability to detect We are required to report to you if: Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements are required to report by exception We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements the Directors statement on page 139 to the financial statements on to: in our opinion: from our sector experience and through discussion with the Directors the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material the Directors confirmation within the Going Concern and Viability adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent as required by auditing standards.
uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Statement on page 57 that they have carried out a robust Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those from branches not visited by us: or We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the from the date of approval of the financial statements: or that would threaten its business model, future performance, the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the financial statements including financial reporting including related if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 138 solvency and liquidity: Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosures describing these with the accounting records and returns: or extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are procedures on the related financial statement items.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
and not made: or the Directors explanation in the Going Concern and Viability we have not received all the information and explanations we With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, require for our audit.
as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was Annual Report over what period they have done so and why they considered that limited to enquiry of the Directors and inspection of regulatory and The Directors are responsible for the other information presented period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they We have nothing to report in these respects.
in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over 7.
Respective responsibilities We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures Directors responsibilities team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 139, throughout the audit.
the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Going Concern statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, and Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the the preparation of financial statements that are free from material as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the Corporate governance disclosures misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that We are required to report to you if: Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, work we have not identified material misstatements in the other we have identified material inconsistencies between the as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our information.
knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the responsibilities the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Strategic report and Directors report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and realistic alternative but to do so.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Based solely on our work on the other information: understandable and provides the information necessary for Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, Auditors responsibilities Companys members those matters we are required to state to them report and the Directors report: business model and strategy: or Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent in our opinion the information given in those reports for the the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance by us to the Audit Committee: or to issue our opinion in an Auditors Report.
Reasonable assurance is a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we with the Companies Act 2006. a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit have formed.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Report conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material Directors Remuneration Report does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, Richard Kelly Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the our review.
or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the Chartered Accountants Companies Act 2006. economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial 15 Canada Square We have nothing to report in these respects.
London E14 5GL 5 June 2018 A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
144Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 145Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018
