FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WPP PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION In our opinion: the financial statements of WPP plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and oftheParent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit and the Parent Companys loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the accounting policies: the consolidated income statement excluding the US dollar information : the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated cash flow statement: the consolidated balance sheet: the consolidated statement of changes in equity: the Parent Company profit and loss account, balance sheet and statement of changes in equity: and the related notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Revenue recognition: estimate of revenue recognised over time based on the proportion of the level of service performed for open projects at year-end within the Kantar network Goodwill Restructuring and transformation costs Taxation reserves Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 80.0 million 2017: 105.5 million which we determined using 5.5% 2017: 5% of pre-tax profit.
Scoping Those entities subject to audit provide coverage for 76% of the Groups consolidated revenue 2017: 78% and 81% of the Groups consolidated operating profit 2017: 83% : achieved through a combination of direct testing and specified audit procedures including substantive analytical review procedures performed by the Group auditor and or component auditors across the world.
Significant changes in There have been no significant changes in our approach compared with the prior year.
However, werevised our assessment of key audit our approach matters as detailed below.
163 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WPP PLC CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT GOING CONCERN We reviewed the Strategic report to shareholders on page 79 to the financial statements as to 1 whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the financial statements and 2 their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group's and Parent Company's ability to conclude that the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report ifthe statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Based solely on reading the Strategic report to shareholders and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 79-83 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors' confirmation on page 79 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 79 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Given the reduced financial significance of media volume income for the Group, we no longer identified this as a key audit matter in the current year.
However, upon the announcement of the potential sale of the Kantar network, which is part of Data Investment Management, we identified that there is a potential for fraud in relation to the cut-off of revenue recognised on open projects at year-end accounted for as revenue recognised over time based on the proportion ofthelevel of service performed within the Kantar network.
Therefore, this has been included as a key audit matter in the current year.
In addition, with the increase in costs incurred in respect of restructuring, we have included this as a key audit matter in the current year.
164 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WPP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Revenue recognition: estimate of revenue recognised over time We have: The results of our based on the proportion of the level of service performed for Analysed the total open contracts as at the year-end by total testing were open projects at yearend within the Kantar network contract value and against prior periods to identify unusual satisfactory.
Cut-off of trends: revenue recognised on Assessing the timing of recognition revenue recognised on open Recalculated revenue recognised based on the proportion of open projects at projects at year-end and the proportion of the level of service at the level of service performed by obtaining schedules of year-end and estimated that date is an area of complexity and judgement due to the estimated costs to complete from project managers and costs to complete in need for management to estimate the costs to complete the challenging the key underlying assumptions to test their calculating the project.
A risk exists that sales are incorrectly recorded in the completeness and accuracy by reference to independent data proportion of the level wrong period based on incorrect management estimates.
sources: of service performed at Confirmed contract terms and the absence of side that date appear to be Given the degree of judgement and complexity involved and agreements with customers and assessing such terms or reasonable.
theannouncement of the potential sale of the Kantar network agreements and basis for rebates for the period to which they part of Data Investment Management, we also determined that may relate for example: acceptance criteria, delivery and there was a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of payment terms, the absence of future or continuing vendor this balance.
obligations, and cancellation or refund provisions which are often relevant in such circumstances : Refer to page 100 Audit Committee report, page 124 Inquired of the Groups sales and marketing personnel or accounting policies and page 132 notes to the consolidated in-house legal counsel regarding open projects and their financial statements.
knowledge of any unusual terms or conditions associated with these transactions: Attended year-end meetings where such projects are discussed in detail in order to observe the review control and internal challenge occurring: Performed substantive analytical procedures relating to revenue using disaggregated data: for example, comparing revenue reported by month and by service during the current reporting period with comparable prior periods or with revenue related to cash collections.
Goodwill We have: The results of our Assessed the key assumptions used in the impairment models testing were Given the magnitude of the goodwill balance and the continued for goodwill, including specifically the operating cash flow satisfactory and we economic uncertainty in certain regions, it is important to ensure projections, discount rates, and long term growth rates: concur that the that the goodwill impairment review is approached in a robust Compared these assumptions to externally derived data assumptions used in manner to identify potential impairments, where necessary.
where applicable as well as forming our own assessment, the impairment models, including consideration of the potential impact of Brexit: including the discount Determining whether the carrying value of goodwill is Our internal fair value specialists assisted in computing an rates, and level of recoverable requires management to make significant estimates independent assessment of the discount rates used and goodwill impairment concerning the estimated future cash flows and associated assessing the methodology used in preparing the impairment booked in the year are discount rates and growth rates based on managements view of testing models: appropriate.
future business prospects, including revenue growth and Tested the integrity and mathematical accuracy of the operating margin.
The Group is highly acquisitive.
As such, given impairment models: and the magnitude of the goodwill balance 2018: 13,202.8 million, Considered the sensitivity of the impairment testing model to 2017: 12,952.9 million, and the relative sensitivity to certain changes in key assumptions.
inputs to the impairment testing process, in particular the discount rate, the valuation of goodwill is considered a key audit We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in matter.
respect of its goodwill impairment testing and goodwill impairment recognised, including whether disclosures about the Certain parts of the business, including, in particular VMLY&R, sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to were sensitive to the assumptions used in the impairment review reasonably possible changes in key assumptions properly and were treated as a key audit matter in the current year.
reflected the risks inherent in such assumptions.
Refer to page 100 Audit Committee report, page 123 accounting policies and page 140 notes to the consolidated financial statements.
165 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WPP PLC Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Restructuring and transformation costs We have: The results of our Performed a walkthrough of the process performed by testing were Management has implemented a restructuring and Management and tested the design, implementation and satisfactory and we transformation programme as part of a strategic review in the operating effectiveness of key controls identified: conclude that the current year.
Made enquiries made of management of the operating restructuring and companies and have corroborated our understanding of the transformation costs Management judgement is required to determine whether a restructuring programmes in place gained at a Group level: recognised in the year restructuring cost can be recognised in the year.
Restructuring and appear to have been and transformation costs were 302.3 million for the year ended Performed substantive testing by selecting a sample of costs appropriately 31 December 2018 2017: 56.8 million as highlighted in note 3 and obtaining supporting documentation, at a component accounted for.
and within the Audit Committee report.
The key judgements and global level.
For the sample selected we have assessed include assessing whether the timing and extent of the plans and whether the recognition criteria as set out in IAS 37 Provisions, their communication to those likely to be affected meet the Contingent Assets and Contingent Liabilities have been met in requirements set out in IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Assets and the year such that the cut-off of the costs has been Contingent Liabilities.
appropriately accounted for and that managements estimates at the year-end date are reasonable.
We therefore identified a key audit matter in relation to the cut-off such costs as recognised in the year.
Taxation reserves We have: The results of our Discussed and considered all significant taxation exposures testing were There is uncertainty in respect of resolving matters with tax with Group management including their tax specialists: and satisfactory.
There were authorities around the world.
The highly disaggregated nature of Together with our internal taxation specialists we challenged no material exceptions the Group coupled with its acquisitive nature means that there the estimates and judgements made by management when noted when are a number of different tax jurisdictions in which the Group calculating the income tax payable in each territory and the corroborating could be liable to pay additional tax above the amount due associated provisions held.
managements based on its tax returns, making potential tax exposures a key judgement to the audit matter.
Therefore assessing the Groups exposure to We reviewed correspondence with taxation authorities in correspondence and significant tax risks and the level of provisions recognised is an significant locations where available, as well as reviewing the support reviewed for area of judgement.
support or opinions received from external counsel and other those significant tax advisors where management has utilised such opinions to make reserves.
Refer to page 100 Audit Committee report, page 125 assumptions on the level of taxation payable.
accounting policies and page 136 notes to the consolidated financial statements.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial financial statements as a whole as follows: statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality Group Parent Company both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of financial statements financial statements our work.
Materiality 80.0 million 32.0 million 2017: 105.5 million 2017: 42.2 million Group materiality 80m Basis for 5.5% of profit before tax The basis of materiality determining 2017: 5.0% of profit is shareholder's equity, materiality before tax taking into account the Group materiality.
The PBT 1,463.3m materiality used is less than 1% of shareholder's Audit Committee equity 2017: less than 1% reporting threshold of shareholders equity.
1.5m Rationale We have determined that the critical Given the nature of the PBT Group materiality for the benchmark for the Group was pre-tax Company as a parent benchmark profit because we consider this company, we consider applied measure to be what the shareholders shareholder's equity to believe to be a key performance be the most indicator for the Group.
We also appropriate basis for considered this measure to be materiality.
We have, suitablehaving compared to another however, capped the benchmark: our materiality is below materiality at 40% of 1%of equity 2017: below 1%.
Group Materiality 2017: Materiality is lower than for the year 40% of Group ended 31 December 2017 primarily as Materiality.
aresult of a lower pre-tax profit achieved in 2018.
166 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WPP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would separately report to the OTHER INFORMATION Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.5 million 2017: 1.5 million, as The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT As a result of the highly disaggregated nature of the Group, with operations In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to in112 countries and more than 3,000 offices among more than 150 companies read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other within the Group, a significant portion of audit planning time is spent so that information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our the scope of our work is appropriate to address the Groups identified risks knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially ofmaterial misstatement.
In selecting the components that are in scope each year, we refresh and If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material update our understanding of the Group and its environment, including misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material obtaining an understanding of the Groups system of internal controls, and misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level, in order to other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that check that the units selected provide an appropriate basis on which to there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to undertake audit work to address the identified risks of material misstatement.
Such audit work represents a combination of procedures, all of which are designed to target the Groups identified risks of material misstatement in In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as themost effective manner possible.
uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Those entities subject to audit provide for coverage of 76% of the Groups Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors consolidated revenue 2017: 78% and 81% of the Groups consolidated that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a operating profit 2017: 83% : achieved through a combination of direct testing whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information and specified audit procedures including substantive analytical review necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, procedures performed by the Group auditor and or component auditors business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge across the world.
Our audit work at the components is executed at levels obtained in the audit: or ofmateriality appropriate for such components, many of which are local Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit statutory materiality levels which in all instances are capped at 40% of Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to Groupmateriality.
the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance In order to support our conclusion that there were no significant risks of Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate components not subject to audit, we tested the consolidation process and Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor carried out analytical procedures at the parent entity level.
in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
HOW WE WORK CLOSELY WITH COMPONENT AUDITORS The Group audit team plans its visits to component auditors based on a We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
carefully designed programme, which considers a variety of factors including size of entity and number of significant risks: this programme is put in place to RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS check that appropriate oversight and guidance is provided to the component As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the auditors through a combination of: directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and upfront team briefings to all component teams: for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal site visits: control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of central review of documentation: and financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to risk assessment discussions and detailed workpaper reviews.
These are designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for the Group audit team visits all key locations across the Group on regular basis.
assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going In addition we assess the competence of our component auditors.
concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to In years when we do not visit a key location we will: liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no include the component audit partner in our team briefing: realistic alternative but to do so.
discuss their risk assessment: and review documentation of the findings from their work.
We also hold quarterly meetings with management at a regional and global level in order to update our understanding of the Group and its environment on an ongoing basis.
167 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WPP PLC AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT AUDIT RESPONSE TO RISKS IDENTIFIED OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As a result of performing the above, we identified the fraud risk in relation to Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial the cut-off of revenue recognised on open projects at year-end and estimated statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to costs to complete in calculating the proportion of the level of service fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
performed at that date in the Kantar network as a key audit matter.
The key Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that audit matters section of our report explains this matter in more detail and an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material alsodescribes the specific procedures we performed in response to that key misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and audit matter.
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified the basis of these financial statements.
included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and internal and external A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
uk performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected .
This description forms part of our auditors report.
relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing EXTENT TO WHICH THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with relevant tax DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD authorities: and We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course IDENTIFYING AND ASSESSING POTENTIAL RISKS RELATED TO ofbusiness.
IRREGULARITIES In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and our procedures included the following: significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of enquiring of management, internal audit and the Audit Committee, fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY OUR ENGAGEMENT whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: LETTER detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: and been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 as if the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or that Act had applied to the Company.
non-compliance with laws and regulations.
discussing among the engagement team including significant component In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, the information given in the Strategic report and the Corporate Governance valuations, pensions and IT specialists regarding how and where fraud report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
is consistent with the financial statements: and As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in relation to the the Strategic report and the Corporate Governance report have been cut-off of revenue recognised on open projects at year-end and estimated prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
costs to complete in calculating the proportion of the level of service performed at that date in the Kantar network: and In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report or the effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the directors report.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included various taxation laws, Securities and Exchange Commission, Major Securities Law, Listing Rules, European Union law and Companies Jersey Law.
In addition, compliance with the Groups regulatory solvency requirements were fundamental to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
168 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WPP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION OTHER MATTERS ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND ACCOUNTING AUDITOR TENURE RECORDS Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in by the Company at the AGM on 20 May 2002 to audit the financial statements our opinion: for the year ending 31 December 2002 and subsequent financial periods.
The we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and audit: or reappointments of the firm is 17 years, covering the years ending 31 December proper accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or 2002 to 31 December 2018. proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or CONSISTENCY OF THE AUDIT REPORT WITH THE ADDITIONAL the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE accounting records and returns.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
USE OF OUR REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in Under our engagement letter we are also required to report if in our opinion accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and or the accounting records and returns.
those matters we have expressly agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Richard Muschamp For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Recognised Auditor London, United Kingdom 10 April 2019 169 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 170 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Five-year summary 172 Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 173 Other statutory information 174 Information for shareholders 176 Financial glossary 178 Where to find us 180 171 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2018
