qxp 03 07 2018 12:27 Page 46 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLCs financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of its net return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law : and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the statement of financial position as at 31 March 2018: the income statement, the statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the company in the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Overall materiality: 12.0 million 2017: 11.0 million, based on 1% of net assets.
The Company is a standalone Investment Trust Company and engages Frostrow Capital LLP the AIFM to manage its assets.
We conducted our audit of the financial statements using information from the AIFM and J. P. Morgan Europe Limited with whom the AIFM has engaged to provide certain administrative functions.
We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the Company, the involvement of the third parties referred to above, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Company operates.
Valuation and existence of investments.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 46 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp40-pp51.
qxp 03 07 2018 12:27 Page 47 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the company and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the company which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Company's financial statements, including, but not limited to the Companies Act 2006 and section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, enquiries with management and testing the Companys compliance with section 1158 in the current year.
We also tested the tax disclosures in Note 6.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the area of focus Income from investments We assessed the accounting policy for income recognition for Refer to page 55 and 56 Accounting Policies and page 58 compliance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP and and 62 Notes to the Accounts.
performed testing to check that income had been accounted for in accordance with this stated accounting policy.
ISAs UK presume there is a risk of fraud in income recognition.
We considered this risk to specifically relate to We found that the accounting policies implemented were in the risk of overstating investment gains and the accordance with accounting standards and the AIC SORP, misclassification of dividend income as either income or and that income has been accounted for in accordance with capital if one is particularly underperforming in line with the the stated accounting policy.
total return objective of the Company.
We tested the accuracy of dividend receipts by agreeing the dividend rates from investments to independent market We focused on the accuracy and completeness of dividend data.
No material misstatements were identified which income amounting to 12,204,000 for the year and its required reporting to those charged with governance.
presentation in the Income Statement as set out in the requirements of The Association of Investment Companies To test for completeness, we tested all investment holdings Statement of Recommended Practice the AIC SORP.
in the portfolio, to ensure that all dividends declared in the market by investment holdings had been recorded.
We also focused on the calculation of realised and unrealised gains and losses on investments amounting to a We tested occurrence by testing that all dividends recorded gain of 30,702,000 for the year.
in the year had been declared in the market by investment holdings, and we traced a sample of dividends received to This is because incomplete or inaccurate income both bank statements.
revenue and capital could have a material impact on the companys net asset value.
We tested the allocation and presentation of dividend income between the revenue and capital return columns of the Statement of Comprehensive Income in line with the requirements set out in the AIC SORP by determining reasons behind dividend distributions.
Our procedures did not identify any material misstatements which required reporting to those charged with governance.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 47 249336 WWH pp40-pp51.
qxp 03 07 2018 12:27 Page 48 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Key audit matter How our audit addressed the area of focus Income from investments We also checked that the gains or losses on investments held at fair value comprised realised and unrealised gains or losses, we tested a sample of disposal proceeds to bank statements.
For unrealised gains or losses, we tested the valuation of the portfolio at the year-end, and also tested the reconciliation of opening and closing investments.
Our testing did not identify any material misstatements which required reporting to those charged with governance.
Quoted investments: Valuation and existence of investments Refer to pages 40 and 41 Audit Committee Report, page 55 We tested the valuation of quoted investments by agreeing and 56 Accounting Policies and pages 62 Notes to the the prices used to third party sources.
We tested the existence of the quoted investment portfolio by The investment portfolio at 31 March 2018 principally agreeing the holdings to an independent custodian comprised listed equity investments, OTC swaps, options confirmation from J. P. Morgan Securities LLC as at and unquoted debt investments and totalled 1,293,520,000.
We focused on the valuation and existence of investments No material differences were identified which required because investments represent the principal element of the reporting to those charged with governance.
net asset value as disclosed on the Statement of Financial Unquoted debt investments: Position in the financial statements.
We tested the valuation of unquoted debt investments by agreeing the prices used to third party sources.
We tested the existence of the unquoted debt investments by agreeing the holdings to independent confirmations from the administrative agents for each investment at 31 March 2018.
No material differences were identified which required reporting to those charged with governance.
OTC derivative financial instruments swaps : We tested the valuation of the OTC derivatives by agreeing the prices used for a sample in the valuation to independent third party sources as at 31 March 2018.
We tested the existence of the OTC derivatives by agreeing the holdings to an independent confirmation from J. P. Morgan Securities LLC and the Broker, Goldman Sachs International.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 48 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp40-pp51.
qxp 03 07 2018 12:27 Page 49 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC We focused on this area because the performance fee is Performance Fee calculated using a complex methodology as set out in the Refer to page 41 Audit Committee Report, page 56 AIFM Agreement and Portfolio Management Agreement.
Accounting Policies and page 58 Notes to the Financial Statements.
We independently recalculated the performance fee using the methodology set out in the AIFM Agreement and The performance fee charge for the year was 9.7m.
Portfolio Management Agreement and agreed the inputs to As at 31 March 2018, there was a performance fee accrual of the calculation, including the benchmark data, to 10.7m.
9.7m of which was recognised as a provision for independent third party sources, where applicable.
potential future payments and 1m was payable, relating to No material misstatements were identified by our testing outperformance achieved as at that date.
which required reporting to those charged with governance.
Performance fees totalling 3.4m were paid or payable relating to outperformance achieved during the year How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which it operates.
The Companys accounting is delegated to the Administrator who maintains the Companys accounting records and who has implemented controls over those accounting records.
We obtained our audit evidence from substantive tests.
However, as part of our risk assessment, we understood and assessed the internal controls in place at the Administrator to the extent relevant to our audit.
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgement to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall materiality 12.0 million 2017: 11.0 million.
How we determined it 1% of net assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We applied this benchmark, which is a generally accepted auditing practice for investment trust audits.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 601,000 2017: 550,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Outcome We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We have nothing to report.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 49 249336 WWH pp40-pp51.
qxp 03 07 2018 12:27 Page 50 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Company and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Company We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 22 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 25 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Company.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 31, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 40 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 50 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 249336 WWH pp40-pp51.
qxp 03 07 2018 12:27 Page 51 Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 31, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 14 July 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 4 years, covering the years ended 31 March 2015 to 31 March 2018.
Sandra Dowling Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 15 June 2018 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 51
