We ensure C&Ws systems work smoothly Cable & Wireless In July 2007, we were awarded the with our 24 7 intelligent helpdesk at contract to maintain the mechanical our Tamworth service centre offering and electrical infrastructure for 725 Cable technical engineer support and response & Wireless sites across the UK.
The high services to increase the response times technical and performance requirements and adherence to KPIs.
MITIE has of the contract sees almost 80 dedicated expanded its relationship to provide a MITIE people working to make sure facilities management service, delivering Cable & Wireless systems run smoothly.
cleaning, of ce services, helpdesk and Our solution offers a dedicated mobile other ancillary services to their UK and maintenance team, supported by exible Ireland Estate, including their Bracknell HQ back-up engineers from our regional and other locations around the country.
This has combined 24 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Within Facilities Services this year, we Our national contract with Her have had a focus on consolidation Majestys Courts Service to provide Operating which will allow our businesses to security services continues to work together more easily and assist expand, with additional revenue review them in delivering effective multisecured in the last financial year.
service and FM contracts going This enlarged contract is the largest forward.
We now recognise five single manned guarding contract Facilities business lines as follows: Cleaning in the UK security industry.
and Environmental Services which Our focus on the education sector Services encompasses the cleaning, has enabled us to win several landscaping and pest control Our Facilities Services division new cleaning contracts with businesses with revenues this year of combines the operating activities Carnegie College in Fife, and 269.6m 2007: 236.9m : Facilities of our broad range of FM services.
both Stevenson College and the Management which comprises the The division has had a good year new Queen Margaret University Managed Services, Business Services with new contract awards across the Campus in Edinburgh.
and PFI businesses which had division increasing revenue by 12.1% revenues of 136.4m 2007: 124.0m : We have secured a key role in Perth to 820.4m 2007: 732.1m and Security with revenue of 257.4m and Kinross Councils Investment in operating pro t growing by 17.8% 2007: 241.8m : Engineering Learning project a public private to 48.9m 2007: 41.5m.
Reported Maintenance with revenue of partnership agreement between operating pro t margins increased 135.2m 2007: 109.7m and Perth and Kinross Council and Axiom by 0.3% to 6.0% 2007: 5.7% whilst Catering with revenue of 21.8m Education Perth and Kinross Limited underlying operating pro t margins 2007: 19.7m.
to build five new primary schools were maintained at 6.0% 2007: and four secondary schools on six 6.0%.
Our medium-term target We set out below a range of campus style sites.
We have been range for this division is 6.0% to 7.0%.
appointed as the FM partner to Within the government sector, we deliver a comprehensive FM service have been awarded a five-year for a 30-year period.
2008 2007 Increase contract to provide an FM solution Our contract awards in the financial m m % for The Of ce for National Statistics and professional services sector delivering project management Revenue 820.4 732.1 12.1 include a major new contract with services as well as a full solution to Barclays to provide cleaning, security Operating provide facilities services for their and waste management services at pro t before UK estate.
more than 50 of their main buildings amortisation 48.9 41.5 17.8 We have also recently been around the country.
Reported awarded a large contract with the We have extended our existing operating pro t Atomic Weapons Establishment to contract with Willis to deliver facilities margin before provide security services, where our services to the new Willis Tower amortisation 6.0% 5.7% 0.3pps team will be under the operational building in the City, which Willis Underlying and tactical control of the MoD moved into in February 2008.
MITIE operating pro t Police to manage access and will deliver all the cleaning and margin before egress at their Aldermaston and security services on this site, which amortisation 6.0% 6.0% Burgh eld sites.
is 330,000 sq ft in size with 2,000 occupants, from spring 2008.
We provide the thinking behind integrated solutions.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 Another valued contract award launched in the Persian Gulf.
Facilities Services 2 for MITIE was with the top five DWC, a 140km urban aviation continued international law rm, Linklaters.
project centred on the worlds Having been a client since May largest international airport, aims to 2001 and having already renewed transform the region into one of the MITIE has also recently been once in 2004, we are very pleased most powerful global centres for awarded a contract with Newedge, that the contract was extended logistics, tourism and commerce.
a company formed by the for a third period in a recent tender Another great award is with St amalgamation of the brokerage exercise.
MITIE provides 38 people Pancras International, a agship businesses of Calyon and Socit delivering mail and archiving contract for our specialist transport Gnrale.
The new contract is services in London and Colchester.
team which includes cleaning and for MITIE to deliver a multi-service We also provide several technology pest control.
package of mail and courier solutions on site.
Our document services, as well as front of house management business was recently In May 2007, MITIEs specialist services, hospitality and caf trolley awarded an exciting new fivetransport security team was services for their 750 staff.
year contract with Herbert Smith, re-awarded a three-year delivering mailroom, stationery, contract for the provision of hold In addition to the contract with reprographics and records baggage screening services for HBOS to provide the cleaning, management services to their of ces all ights departing from Bristol landscaping and pest control to their in London.
high-street branches around the UK, which started in February 2007, we In the manufacturing and logistics MITIE has also been awarded a have now extended our contract sector, MITIE has been awarded contract with BAA at Heathrow to provide these services to a further a specialist health and hygiene Terminal 5, providing cleaning and 130 of their major of ce sites around contract to clean the Foxs biscuits waste management for one of the the country.
The contract has site, part of Northern Foods.
largest single sites in Europe.
doubled in value and now involves Working in the property over 2,000 MITIE people.
In the utilities sector, we have management sector, we have been been awarded contracts with awarded a major contract with EDF Energy to clean two power NB Entrust to deliver cleaning, pest stations in Lincolnshire as well Contract types within control and landscaping to 150 sites as a new contract with British Facilities Services % in the south east as well as delivering Nuclear Group involving over the same services along with security 55 MITIE people, providing mail, and engineering maintenance to a graphics, reprographics, document further 70 sites in the south west.
production, eet technical support and signage services.
Within the retail sector, we have been awarded work at more In addition to the work secured Somer eld stores to add to our earlier in the year with Cable & cleaning contract in the south east.
Wireless to deliver engineering maintenance services throughout In the transport sector, we have 725 of their sites in the UK and secured a prestigious three-year Ireland, MITIE has expanded its contract to deliver FM consultancy relationship to provide an FM service, services to Dubai World Central delivering cleaning, of ce services, DWC.
DWC is one of the most 07 08 07 08 07 08 helpdesk and other ancillary services strategically important commercial to their UK and Ireland estate, Single MultiFacilities infrastructure developments ever service service management including their Bracknell HQ.
Facilities Services has seen increased opportunities.
26 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 62 60 24 24 14 16 St Pancras is a agship award for us in the transport sector St Pancras In September 2007, MITIE was awarded the cleaning, waste management and pest control contract to look after St Pancras International and Ebbs eet International.
The contract incorporates the Eurostar platforms and departure, arrival and security areas.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27 Our social housing work makes a real difference Dacorum Borough Council The tenants of Dacorum Borough MITIE now provides all of the repairs Councils Housing Service are receiving a and maintenance to the Councils new and improved repairs service to help 11,000 homes in Hemel Hempstead, maintain their homes, thanks to a new, Berkhamsted, Tring and the five-year contract with MITIE.
28 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 We have included some of the We have secured several contract awards that have refurbishment contracts with Property contributed to these successful property companies including a results below: 44-week refurbishment of of ce Services space for Helical Bar plc in London In the government sector, we Our Property Services division as well as a contract to refurbish have been awarded a four-year Bruntwoods of ce space in Bootle.
has had a very successful year contract with Suffolk County Council with good performance in all of to provide painting, repairs and We have had a good year in the its services lines, with particularly redecoration of public buildings.
social housing sector, securing pleasing results from Robert Prettie, Contracts awarded in the education a new five-year contract with the heating and plumbing business sector include a five-year repair Dacorum Borough Council to that was acquired in April 2007. and maintenance contract with provide all of the repairs and Property Services has increased Sanctuary Management Services maintenance to the Councils revenue by 32.8% to 285.7m at Queen Margaret University in 11,000 homes in Hemel Hempstead, 2007: 215.1m re ecting organic Edinburgh and a contract with the Berkhamsted, Tring and the growth of 10.0% and revenue University of Westminster to refurbish surrounding villages.
In Scotland, we of 49.1m from Robert Prettie.
Using our have secured a three-year contract Operating pro t grew by 41.5% specialist environmental knowledge, with Hillhead Housing Association to 15.0m 2007: 10.6m and we are also installing under oor and Perthshire Housing Association operating margins by 0.4% to heating and solar hot water at a to provide repairs and maintenance 5.3% 2007: 4.9%.
Our medium-term new-build school in Shef eld for services.
We have also provided target range for this division is 4.5% Tilen Electrics.
Hyde Housing Association with to 5.0%.
internal and external decoration We have been awarded several to over 300 of their properties.
2008 2007 Increase new contracts within the financial m m % and professional services sector We have secured work comprising including a contract with a leading two ten-month contracts for Flagship Revenue 285.7 215.1 32.8 investment bank situated within the Housing Group in Newmarket to Operating City of London to t-out 25,000 sq ft provide internal refurbishment pro t before of of ce space for them at Pinners and redecoration.
amortisation 15.0 10.6 41.5 Hall in London and a contract for In addition to these great contract Bank of Ireland to t-out its prestigious Operating pro t awards, our specialist teams will new headquarters at Bow Bells margin before be spending five years painting House, located in EC4.
amortisation 5.3% 4.9% 0.4pps and redecorating all 2,400 of Trust Housing Associations homes across In manufacturing and logistics, we have been awarded a five-year the country and also working for Fife Housing Association on a onecontract with Royal Mail to provide responsive maintenance to their year internal and external planned maintenance contract.
post of ces and delivery of ces throughout Scotland as well as a Within the transport sector, we 25-week contract to replace the have secured a further five-month roof of Siemens main manufacturing contract for passive re protection plant in Cheshire.
at Heathrow Terminal 5 and in the Within the property management utilities sector we are carrying out and construction sectors, we have a four-year contract with BT to won a further refurbishment contract upgrade telephone exchanges with Frank Haslam Milan in Derbyshire in the North and South of England where we will be plastering sheltered and in Scotland.
Taylor Wimpey has also awarded us a contract to install heating and plumbing in over 500 homes across the West Midlands.
Other work includes a contract with Bramall Construction to provide kitchen, bathroom and heating refurbishment in nearly 500 properties in Shef eld, as well as a contract with Wildgoose Construction Limited in Shef eld for the installation of solar powered hot water in 47 ecological homes.
We have been awarded a contract to provide plumbing and heating installations in nearly 500 homes for Bellway Homes in North Nottinghamshire as part of a fiveyear regeneration project.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 Our engineering teams traditional Future Path nder programme.
work is evolving to meet the MITIEs design concepts for the Engineering changing requirements of our school include good quality internal customer base.
New government environment, simple, user friendly Services legislation promotes on-site systems, low energy and capital energy generation in new-build costs minimising CO We have seen steady growth in our emissions while 2 developments and reduction in applying value engineering where Engineering Services division as the carbon emissions through the use of business transitions to a lower risk possible.
It will feature energy ef cient green technologies.
Our new energy heating and lighting together with work mix.
Contract awards have offering in these areas makes us an increased revenues in the division rainwater harvesting and night time even more attractive partner in the cooling.
There will also be a focus by 6.9% to 301.1m 2007: 281.6m marketplace.
This is re ected in some with operating pro t also increasing on providing a natural environment of our latest contract awards: for learning centred on a natural by 6.4% to 8.3m 2007: 7.8m.
Operating margins were maintained ventilation strategy.
In the government sector, we at 2.8% 2007: 2.8%.
Our mediumhave been awarded a contract We have continued to build on term target range for this division is with the National Assembly for our relationship with Standard 3.0% to 4.0%.
Wales regional headquarters in Life Investments in the financial Aberystwyth.
Work has started on and professional services sector, the project, with staff set to occupy offering an integrated approach 2008 2007 Increase the building in spring 2009.
The to provide the engineering tm m % contract is for mechanical and out and maintenance.
This has electrical works, and includes many resulted in us securing three Revenue 301.1 281.6 6.9 environmentally friendly features new-build projects with them in Operating such as a biomass boiler, ammonia Guildford, Ealing and London.
pro t before chillers, rainwater harvesting, The Woodbridge Road project in amortisation 8.3 7.8 6.4 natural ventilation and controls, Guildford sees us utilise geo-thermal Operating pro t solar panels, quietrevolution wind energy, generating 137mWh of margin before turbine, cooling pond and intelligent renewable energy for the building.
The aim will be to achieve Our commitment to partnering and a Building Research Establishment substantial knowledge of renewable Environmental Assessment Method technologies was instrumental in BREEAM rating of Excellent.
As part of our work in the education We have secured further sector, we have been awarded infrastructure works at Great some great new contracts, including Ormond Street Hospital in the a design and build contract for healthcare sector, following our University Campus Suffolk.
The excellent performance as principal new-build campus development in contractor on the initial project Ipswich sees us integrated straight that was completed in October into the project team to develop 2007.
The hospitals redevelopment the platform design and ensure the programme continues through to clients vision is fully realised.
Works 2012 and our strong relationship with include air-cooled chiller plant with the hospital and their team means heat recovery, chilled beams and a we are well placed for future works.
sophisticated lighting control system In the leisure sector, we have harvesting sunlight on bright days.
continued our relationship with The building also features a sedum or the world famous The Langham living roof, which provides a really Hotel, London, by recently securing natural feel to the campus.
Running MITIE continues to build on its strong concurrently, these are the relationship with the University of public area works, which consist Bristol with the award of a combined of a complete mechanical and heat and power CHP and waste electrical refurbishment in all public heat recovery project at the areas, including the main entrance Universitys Langford veterinary and function rooms.
The project includes both project is the guest room t-out the supply and installation of a of 161 rooms, which will be taking containerised CHP unit with 380kW place in the occupied hotel over the electrical and 500kW heat output, as next year.
well as the provision of infrastructure In the property management sector, works at the University.
The our recent award at Easter Park, proposed development will create Aldermaston allows us to exploit our over 50m of educational and in-depth knowledge of geothermal research facilities, and laboratories technology, satisfying the clients for the Biological Sciences and objective to create green of ce Mathematics departments.
space for this new-build business We have been awarded the park development near Reading.
contract on the new-build Melksham The contract includes the design, Oak Community School in Wiltshire build and installation of closed loop to provide the mechanical and bore elds and a ground source heat electrical engineering.
The school is pump system.
part of the Building Schools for the 30 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Standard Life Investments Standard Life Investments has partnered with MITIE to build a new state-of-the-art of ce complex in Guildford.
Our energy experts have proposed an energy solution based upon the use of geothermal energy as its heat source.
MITIE will also be carrying out the interior t-out of the building and the mechanical and electrical maintenance.
We have also formed an exciting Other recent contracts include Salt Quay House, a new of ce partnership with the wind turbine design company, quietrevolution, to development at Sutton Harbour, Plymouth, which meets the latest install and integrate its wind turbines across the UK.
MITIE has incorporated environmental standards and includes energy saving initiatives, the use of these turbines as an essential component within many of such as air-conditioning using latest generation heat recovery pumps our low carbon schemes, including the National Assembly for Wales, with thermal wheel air handling units to maximise free cooling.
and this product forms an integral part of Engineering Services new Our work in the science and microgeneration energy offering.
technology sector has grown by securing a major infrastructure According to an Energy Saving Trust upgrade project in May 2007 with report, it is estimated that small scale one of the worlds largest providers wind generation, together with other of data centre space.
The project, forms of microgeneration, could located in Londons Docklands provide 3040% of the UKs electricity area, is now our largest engineering needs by 2050. contract and consists of the Another notable contract award construction of two new power is our appointment onto the stations, upgrade of an existing framework contract for Diamond power station and the increase in Light Source at its new scienti c the cooling capacity to the data facility in Oxfordshire.
initially for three years, will see The completion and integration Engineering Services acting of the MITIE project works into the as principal contractor for the existing data centre infrastructure will installation of beamline cabins provide the client with an increased including mechanical, electrical capacity and increased resilience and specialist services.
This will enable additional space to be sold on the oors and will underpin the current and future service level agreements.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31
