The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 20 Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations Insulating Ceramics Business description located in the USA, France, UK, Italy, Divisional EBITA Continuing businesses m The Insulating Ceramics Division is a global Mexico, Brazil, Korea, Japan, India supplier of thermal management and metal and China.
45.6 melting solutions for high temperature 37.5 Thermal Ceramics strategic objective is to applications which benefit technically, be the worlds leading provider of advanced 28.6 nancially and environmentally from insulation solutions.
This is implemented 21.9 increased thermal and energy efficiency 19.1 through: and management.
The Division consists of two global businesses: Thermal Ceramics 3 Focusing on high growth, high margin 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 and Molten Metal Systems MMS.
and high value-added products and markets.
Thermal Ceramics Divisional EBITA margin 3 Establishing and maintaining leading Thermal Ceramics is a world leader in the Continuing businesses % positions in target markets.
design and supply of heat management 3 Changing the scale and location of 11.9 solutions, and insulation and refractory 11.6 manufacturing operations to deliver technology, to a diverse range of markets 9.5 the best value.
These range from the 3 Driving operational excellence through insulation of furnaces and petrochemical World Class Manufacturing.
process plants to the protection of aircraft 3 Satisfying customers.
3 Ensuring that Thermal Ceramics 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thermal Ceramics core products are is A Great Place to Work.
manufactured from advanced insulating Key performance indicators Thermal Ceramics targets growth materials and include insulating bres, opportunities in the following key markets: insulating re bricks and monolithics.
These Increase 2008 2007 % are marketed under a number of leading 3 Petrochemical As petrochemical and Divisional revenue 382.9m 324.0m 18.2% brands including Superwool, JM, rening processes and technology Divisional EBITA 45.6m 37.5m 21.6% Pyro-Bloc, FireMaster and Tri-mor.
develop, high temperature heat management and energy efficiency Thermal Ceramics employs over 3,200 become increasingly critical.
Thermal people across a network of 34 Ceramics targets both new and retro-t manufacturing facilities and 50 sales ofces projects supplying the areas of red world-wide.
The business is structured heaters, sulphur recovery units, uid geographically, with regional teams catalytic cracking units FCCU and supported by global engineering, sales and boilers.
Sector growth is geared to marketing, technology and research and population expansion and so is expected development functions.
Major sites are to remain buoyant.
Operating in niche markets around the Divisional EBITA is dened as segment operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items world... and amortisation of intangible assets.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 21 Business review Governance Financial statements 3 Power Generation Increasing Developing our team in Brazil demand for electricity across the world, and particularly in the emerging With Thermal Ceramics range of high-technology, economies, is driving expansion in the differentiated insulation materials, having the sector.
Environmental and energy cost right people in applications engineering is a key efficiency issues make heat and competitive advantage.
Thermal Ceramics Brazilian applications engineering team is a prime example, thermal management a key issue having worked with the business as students they for all operators.
Thermal Ceramics joined the graduate programme and today they Superwool is used for duct insulation form the core of the applications and customer in heat recovery steam generators service team.
The early identication of talent has HRSG, offering high temperature paid off.
Thermal Brazils sales grew by over 20% last year and the talent management programme resistance with the important is stronger than ever.
reassurance that the materials are low bio-persistent providing a more environmentally friendly solution.
World Class Manufacturing in Saint-Marcellin The new Superwool Plus improves HRSG design by reducing heat losses Thermal Ceramics Saint-Marcellin plant in France or reducing panel thickness.
As with is the pilot plant for the Divisions World Class petrochemical, this sector is closely Manufacturing WCM programme.
This involves linked into population growth and all of the plants employees and is a holistic vision for market-leading performance.
The focus is on so is expected to remain strong.
continual improvement in quality, cost, lead time, exibility and customer service using a variety of 3 Ceramics and Glass Thermal Ceramics tools in a process driven approach.
The emphasis bre products offer multiple benets in on eliminating waste and non-productive activity is the sector, including saving energy by resulting in higher productivity and reduced resource reducing kiln car mass.
The programme has been running since ring ceramic products from tiles to mid 2008 and already the benets are being realised tableware or from sanitary ware to ne as the team works towards the objective of reducing production costs by 10%.
Saint-Marcellin will bone chinaware have been lined with become a working model for the implementation of our range of insulating products.
Sold WCM at other Thermal Ceramics plants world-wide.
under the JM, K and TJM brands, our insulating re bricks are used in roller kilns, shuttle kilns, tunnel kilns 3 Transportation Thermal Ceramics works 3 Fire Protection Thermal Ceramics and hobby kilns.
The sector is linked into with the commercial aviation, military FireMaster Fire Protection Systems are building and construction and so has aircraft and space exploration sectors, comprehensively certied and extensively seen softening demand in the last year offering the Min-K micro-porous tested to meet national and international but the outlook remains good longer term.
insulation used, for example to protect standards, offering customers the the electronics in a ight data recorder.
security of proven re performance 3 Iron and Steel Despite the recent In automotive, the Thermal Ceramics in assorted market sectors including downturn, the demand for steel is business supplies critical insulation commercial buildings, hotels, airports, forecast to continue rising into the products engineered in co-operation industrial plants, offshore platforms, next decade fuelled by industrialisation, with Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers, for cruise ships, military vessels, as well population growth and construction catalytic converters and diesel particulate as tunnels and other underground activities.
Steel producers seek new lters DPF.
Though the construction solutions to tackle environmental in containing molten super-alloy has sector is currently experiencing concerns, rising energy costs and to positioned our advanced insulation a downturn, the increasing regulatory increase operational efficiency.
Typical materials at the heart of the growth in requirements for re protection continue applications for Thermal Ceramics turbo-chargers in diesel engines.
In the to drive opportunities for growth.
include monolithics in blast furnaces, truck and bus sector, Thermal Ceramics In 2009, process upgrades in Thermal bre modules in reheating and heat bre blankets and papers provide Ceramics plants in Europe and USA will treatment furnaces, and insulating re thermal and acoustic solutions for areas allow a new generation of Firemaster bricks for hearth and reheating furnaces.
such as the engine compartment, oor, products to be offered bringing significant motor compartment and tunnel and advantages of reduced weight to exhaust systems.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 22 Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Molten Metal Systems MMS Investing in growth India and China MMS has a leading position in the supply of crucibles to the non-ferrous metals industry.
As part of the implementation of its operational MMS also manufactures equipment and excellence and growth strategies, Molten Metal foundry products used in the melting, Systems has been investing in the development of its production capabilities in India and China.
The holding and processing of metals and alloys.
combination of leading materials and production technologies have been successfully put in place MMS uses its advanced materials and with the help of our technology centres in Europe.
manufacturing technologies to design The plants will produce a significant proportion of and manufacture crucibles for metal melting MMSs global output.
Both will be brought fully on and holding which offer technical and cost stream during 2009. advantages.
MMSs leading edge range of furnaces are designed to reduce energy consumption and costs, offering energy savings of up to 50% compared to brick Global productivity New automated plant in China lined furnaces.
MMSs furnaces also use advanced recuperative burner technology to Thermal Ceramics newly commissioned insulating reduce NOx and carbon monoxide emissions.
re brick plant in Yixing, China incorporates the best productivity enhancing technology utilised by MMS employs over 500 people at its other Thermal Ceramics plants around the world.
These include The new facility is adjacent to the Divisions existing marketing and technical facilities in the UK, Yixing plant and its output is more than the total the USA, France, Mexico and South Africa of the two existing production lines with much higher efficiencies.
The plant is the Asian regional and manufacturing in Germany, Brazil, India production centre for insulating re bricks and the 2 and China.
increased automation offers customers higher and more consistent quality products whilst employees MMSs strategy is to deliver targeted have an improved work environment with reduced solutions for metal casters, focused on manual handling and related hazards.
improving their metal quality, increasing efficiency and reducing energy consumption.
This is implemented by: 3 Focusing on high value high challenge opportunities.
3 Striving for operational excellence worldwide.
3 Developing a growth-culture throughout the business.
MMSs key growth opportunities lie in the development and implementation of a solutions based approach for high-value metal casters and processors.
These customers in turn serve a wide variety of markets, including: 3 The production of pure aluminium for electronics applications.
3 The recycling and rening of precious metals from mining projects.
3 The production of metal powder for the cosmetics, aerospace and defence markets.
3 Non-ferrous castings for the automotive, marine and rail markets.
3 Copper and brass castings for the construction, chemical processing and oil and gas sectors.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 23 Business review Governance Financial statements Divisional performance Business developments Outlook Revenues within the Insulating Ceramics In June 2008, Thermal Ceramics opened its The long-term outlook for Thermal Ceramics Division rose by 18.2% to 382.9 million new global R&D centre in the UK.
This is remains positive, driven by the growth 2007: 324.0 million and on a constant equipped with state of the art instrumentation in global population and the continuing currency basis by 6.1%.
The ongoing focus and pilot manufacturing facilities for advanced industrialisation of emerging economies.
These factors, combined with the need on pricing as well as improving operational product development and accelerated speed to reduce energy expenditure and the efficiencies has yielded another year of to market.
increasingly stringent environmental improving margins.
This has been achieved During 2008 Thermal Ceramics has continued regulations, will drive demand for our despite the increasing costs of energy, raw its strong development in emerging markets products.
The rollout of High Temperature materials and freight.
EBITA was up by by signicantly expanding its insulating re Superwool production in North America 21.6% at 45.6 million 2007: 37.5 million brick facility in China.
Furthermore, in 2009, and the worldwide launch of Superwool with divisional EBITA margins increasing to new bre capacity will come on line in Russia.
Plus are also both progressing well.
The new products Superwool Plus and Despite MMSs strong order intake throughout Thermal Ceramics Superwool HT will play a strong role in the 2008, there is some expectation of a softening The Thermal Ceramics business had an development of Thermal Ceramics sales in of demand going into 2009, as a consequence excellent year, with revenues up 19.0% 6.7% 2009.
Superwool Plus, announced in June of the worsening economic forecasts for all on a constant currency basis to 347.4 2008, offers improved insulation properties regions.
However, with over 50% of its million 2007: 291.9 million.
Growth was over all high temperature insulation wools manufacturing capacity now established in driven primarily by demand from emerging currently available and will offer significant low-cost countries, MMS is well placed to market economies.
The Thermal Ceramics advantages in re protection systems and manage the effects of any slowdown and business continued to make good profit energy saving.
To manufacture these products, to take advantage of available opportunities.
progress with EBITA rising 23.6% to our large bre production lines in the USA 41.4 million 2007: 33.5 million, a and France have been upgraded during 2008 margin of 11.9% as significant inationary while Brazil and India will be upgraded pressure on input costs was more than during 2009. offset through operational efficiencies and pricing action.
In the second half of the Within its own manufacturing facilities, year the business did see the effects of the Thermal Ceramics is focused on reducing economic downturn with markets such as the energy losses in its high temperature automotive, building products and iron and processes.
Progress in this area is part of a steel all slowing.
In contrast the chemical strategy to reduce carbon footprint and to and processing CPI sectors remained counter the effects of volatile energy prices.
buoyant and regionally Asia, the Middle East Also started in 2008 and planned to grow and Latin America continued to grow albeit throughout 2009 and 2010 is the World at reduced levels.
The objective of the programme is to increase Molten Metal Systems productivity overall by improving health, safety MMS revenues rose by 10.6% in 2008 1.0% and environmental performance, quality, on a constant currency basis to 35.5 million cost, logistics and customer service using 2007: 32.1 million.
Sales into Asia grew techniques pioneered in Japanese industry.
particularly strongly, whilst Europe and the Americas both advanced against the previous The MMS UK manufacturing operation year.
EBITA increased by 5.0% to 4.2 million was closed in April 2008 and additional 2007: 4.0 million, a margin of 11.8%, manufacturing capacity was commissioned as the business experienced unprecedented in Germany and in India.
In addition, our new increases in raw materials and energy costs.
manufacturing plant in Suzhou China was In addition, the strengthening of the euro, completed and commenced pilot production particularly against sterling and the US in December 2008, on schedule.
The plant dollar, reduced the margins on some exports will be fully commissioned in Q1 2009. from our German manufacturing plant.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 24 Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Technical Ceramics Business description The Technical Ceramics Divisions strategy Divisional EBITA Continuing businesses m Technical Ceramics is a leading supplier of is aligned with the Groups strategy and bespoke, applications engineered industrial in summary is to: 31.6 products.
These are manufactured from 3 Focus on niche applications in growth advanced materials including ceramic, glass, markets.
20.0 precious metals, piezoelectric and dielectric 17.2 3 Use applications engineering and materials.
Applications include medical 12.3 distinctive competencies to provide implants, electron tubes used in airport 7.4 customers with differentiated solutions.
security scanning devices and ceramic cores 3 Be the supplier of choice in our chosen 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 used in the manufacture of turbine blades.
markets, exhibiting excellent customer The Technical Ceramics Division operates service.
Divisional EBITA margin worldwide with 23 manufacturing sites 3 Demonstrate dissatisfaction with the Continuing businesses % across the USA, UK, Germany, Mexico, status quo and through continuous 14.9 Australia and China.
The Division employs improvement and best practice initiatives 13.1 over 3,000 people and offers full technical achieve higher levels of business 10.6 support and advice to customers throughout performance.
8.5 their product development cycle, working 3 Through recruitment, development and 5.5 closely with them to provide engineered training ensure we have the strongest solutions that add value and help teams in all areas of the business.
3 Constantly review our manufacturing 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 footprint and its ability to deliver our growth and profit objectives.
Key performance indicators Increase 2008 2007 % Divisional revenue 212.2m 152.6m 39.1% Divisional EBITA 31.6m 20.0m 58.0%... delivering high-tech solutions... Divisional EBITA is dened as segment operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 25 Business review Governance Financial statements The Division is structured regionally with Diamond-like coating for nger print swipe sensors global support from marketing, technology, business development, strategy and finance.
Finger print swipe sensors are a key biometric tool for identity verication, security and crime Technical Ceramics offers an extensive range detection.
Robustness, consistency, reliability and of products for hundreds of high technology accuracy in operation are all essential features.
A application niches, including: scratched or worn sensor will disrupt the scan, making the scanner useless.
Technical Ceramics can 3 Ceramic cores used in the casting of supply Diamonex diamond-like carbon coatings turbine blades for aero engine and that will extend the life of the swipe sensor by up to five times this robustness will be a key feature industrial gas turbines.
as handheld mobile scanners become more widely 3 Braze alloys for aero engine build and used by security personnel and police.
repair and ceramic components and sub-assemblies for aero engine monitoring and control equipment.
3 Components and sub-assemblies for Leadership development programme a broad range of medical applications, primarily implantable devices, prosthetics, The ongoing Technical Ceramics leadership development programme formed a key element surgical and diagnostic equipment.
of the strategy to rapidly and fully integrate the 3 Ceramics and assemblies for electron Carpenter Technology Corporation businesses tubes: devices used in a range of which became part of the Division on 31 March medical, security, industrial and research 2008.
The programme has so far involved 145 applications, such as airport security of the Divisions senior team and is designed to scanners, TV and Radio broadcast and further develop their strategic leadership skills and behavioural capabilities.
The programme includes X-Ray equipment.
both on-site and off-site modules and feedback 3 Engineered ceramics used in uid from the participants from both businesses showed handling equipment.
that the early involvement of the former Carpenter 3 Piezoelectric ceramic actuators used team made it a fast-track way of getting to know in data storage.
their new colleagues, understanding their respective 3 Components and assemblies used in cultures and forming synergistic working relationships.
a variety of lasers for product marking, medical and industrial applications.
Technical Ceramics product range serves nine main markets aerospace, automotive, electronics, household goods, industrial equipment, medical, power generation and distribution, process control and monitoring and security and defence.
The five key markets are further described below.
Aerospace As engines run hotter in order to increase efficiency, demands on the materials used in their construction become greater as does the need to monitor and control operating conditions.
Technical Ceramics produces braze alloys for engine build and repair, ceramic components and sub-assemblies for engine monitoring and control equipment.
Our Certech business manufactures cores used in the casting of turbine blades.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 26 Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Electronics Divisional performance Consumer demand for mobile devices Revenue for the Technical Ceramics to offer increasing functionality, together Division rose 39.1% to 212.2 million with increased requirements for data 2007: 152.6 million, including that storage, drives this market to develop and contributed by the businesses acquired from introduce a constant ow of new products.
the Carpenter Technology Corporation at Our components are used in hand-held, the end of March 2008.
Organic revenue land-based and satellite communications growth for the year at constant currency equipment and networks for the and excluding acquisitions was 3.3%.
telecommunications sector: as well as The Division made good profit progress with PCs, servers, data storage and a range strong underlying trading in the second half of peripheral equipment for IT hardware of the year, combined with a solid first half producers.
In addition, the laser market performance.
EBITA rose to 31.6 million continues to nd new applications that 2007: 20.0 million and margins for drive growth in healthcare, product the year improved to 14.9%.
The former marking and process control.
Carpenter businesses contributed a margin Medical of 16% in the nine months of ownership.
An ageing population and step change Although raw material and energy costs improvements in procedural practice increased compared to 2007, these were maintain growth rates consistently above countered by a combination of operational GDP in this market.
Technical Ceramics efficiencies and price increases.
produces components and sub-assemblies Globally the industrial equipment, for a broad range of application niches, medical, power generation and security primarily within medical devices, including and defence markets performed well.
In implants, prosthetics and surgical the USA, demand was robust for aerospace equipment.
In addition we supply key applications in our metals business, and components for diagnostic equipment for our advanced medical components.
In such as ultrasonic imaging, CAT and combination, these businesses offset some MRI scanners.
softness in more economically cyclical Power generation and distribution end-markets such as consumer electronics.
Increasing global demand for power and Our European business also performed well, dramatic increases in energy costs have led by aerospace and medical applications.
placed more emphasis on environmental In Asia the additional capacity recently issues and the need for renewable energy.
installed to meet demand for the thermal We supply a range of products that are used processing market is now fully utilised and in the manufacture of thin lm photovoltaic we anticipate further expansion as a result.
cells for the solar industry and our Certech The consumer facing markets such as business manufactures cores used in the automotive, semiconductor equipment manufacture of turbine blades used for manufacturing and telecommunications industrial gas turbines.
slowed during the year: however, these make up a much smaller portion of our Security and defence business than in previous years.
Ceramic materials are used extensively in armour systems for personnel and vehicle armour.
The latter has seen a resurgence of interest because it supports rapid deployment strategies and protects against the type of threats seen in modern battleeld scenarios.
Scanners used in border controls use metal ceramic assemblies at the heart of the equipment and commercial and domestic security has created interest in diamond-like carbon coatings for ngerprint scanners.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 27 Business review Governance Financial statements Business developments Freeze-casting to optimise the Bentleys bumper The ceramics businesses acquired from the Carpenter Technology Corporation Over recent years, Technical Ceramics has invested at the end of the first quarter have made to develop its freeze-casting capabilities.
This an excellent start with both revenues and technology enables ceramics to be made into very profits ahead of expectations and a good large and complex shapes.
The Division has been using the tight geometrical tolerances and heat order book going into 2009. resistance properties of freeze-cast ceramics in its work to optimise the ceramic moulds for the Bentley In May 2008 we announced the closure of Motor Companys unique metal composite body our Shanghai operation as we continue to panels.
These lightweight metal and carbon bre focus on technically differentiated products.
panels are made by spraying a freeze-cast ceramic Many of its products had reached the end of mould with a thin layer of metal.
The resulting metal their life cycle and the site was also surrounded shell is then strengthened with a composite bre backing to create a strong lightweight panel.
The by residential and ofce developments which VW Audi Group now plans to trial the moulding threatened utilities supplies.
technology across its premium marques using the Technical Ceramics freeze-cast forms.
Outlook The Technical Ceramics Division has significant potential for further revenue and Acquisition synergies profit growth.
Our strategy is to continue to focus on customers and markets that The acquisition of the Certech and Carpenter are themselves growing and are innovative Advanced Ceramics businesses was completed in their approach.
Fundamental to this strategic acquisition are operational, commercial, marketing Growth was achieved in six of our key and technical synergies.
One example of a synergy markets during 2008, which now account benefit is the development of a rapid prototyping service for customers in the aerospace and industrial for over 75% of the Division's revenues.
By combining Certechs These include aerospace, our largest market, specialist design skills and Technical Ceramics medical, specialist industrial equipment process technology, customers can now achieve and power generation and distribution.
a competitive advantage from lead time advantages The acquisition of the Carpenter Advanced on new products.
Ceramics businesses demonstrates our The two businesses are an excellent t, said commitment to increasing our presence Mark Moore, Technical Ceramics Director of in these markets.
As we look to the future, part of the post acquisition process is to make sure The business remains focused on continued that we make best use of our combined strengths operating profit margin progression with to optimise results.
We are very positive about our improvements seen in all regions in 2008, future together and are already seeing synergy supported by investment in new product benets in our results.
The operational disciplines developed over the last few years will continue to be a focus for the business so that we can mitigate as much as possible the effects of the downturn in the general economy.
We plan to increase our presence in the Asian region to address the expanding market there.
This has been helped by new capacity in Yixing, China installed in response to demand from the solar power industry.
We are looking carefully for further bolt-on acquisition opportunities that would enhance our offering in our core markets, which together with a strong new business pipeline, leaves the Division well placed for the future.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 28 Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Carbon Business description The Divisions strategy is aligned with the Divisional EBITA Continuing businesses m The Carbon Division is a global supplier Groups priorities and in summary is to: of engineered solutions for applications 36.3 3 Add value to advanced materials 35.2 34.1 which benefit from the unique properties and technology to deliver engineered of carbon, graphite, silicon carbide, oxide 27.6 solutions to chosen markets.
ceramics and related advanced materials.
21.2 3 Engender a culture of operational These properties, which include electrical excellence with a focus on continually conductivity, self lubrication, heat and improving the value we deliver to corrosion resistance, high compressive our customers.
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 strength, highly pure forms and non-toxicity, 3 Establish and fully embed a mindset are leveraged to meet the specic for growth through focused business and specialist requirements of multiple Divisional EBITA margin development, specically on high demanding applications: from body armour Continuing businesses % growth and high margin markets.
to railway trains, aerospace and electronics.
16.3 3 Invest in our future through our 16.0 15.1 13.8 The Carbon Division has a truly global technology centres of excellence 10.8 presence with a workforce of over 3,700 and through acquisitions, alliances operating in more than 25 countries.
With this coverage we provide a local service 3 Fully engage our entire workforce to our customers whilst benefiting from and to instill a culture of continuous a global infrastructure and market presence.
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 This includes significant operational capability 3 Continuously seek and develop the in a number of low-cost countries, including right people.
Key performance indicators Mexico, China and within Eastern Europe, Increase providing a competitive manufacturing 2008 2007 % footprint that we leverage across all Divisional revenue 239.9m 216.6m 10.8% our markets.
Divisional EBITA 36.3m 35.2m 3.1%... applying market leading technical expertise.
Divisional EBITA is dened as segment operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 29 Business review Governance Financial statements The Division is structured regionally and Leader in ultra high temperature insulation is able to leverage its global footprint and infrastructure as necessary to ensure that The Carbon Division is a world leader in ultra the best possible resource is deployed to high temperature thermal management, offering offer advanced materials and technologies products capable of working at service temperatures in the form of engineered solutions to the up to 3,000C in inert or vacuum environments.
The Division was first in the world to process carbon following global markets: cloth and today its technology spans carbon and graphite felt and cloth, rigid board and machined Industrial and railway electrical graphite components, combined with industry applications leading purication measured in parts per billion.
Electrical current transfer systems are critical These high-level technical capabilities are key enablers for many industries.
The Carbon enablers required by the aerospace, semiconductor, Division supplies electrical current transfer photo-voltaic cell, optical bre and other specialist manufacturing sectors.
systems from carbon brushes through to collectors and rotary current transfer products.
The Division utilises a core technology Countering ballistic threats portfolio and a global network providing regional support and is a leading supplier Through the Groups strategic investment in NP of component solutions to the railroad, Aerospace, the Carbon Division has expanded transit industry and to industrial markets.
its geographic spread, materials capability and customer base in the armour market.
NP Aerospace Fluid handling is a major supplier to the UK Ministry of Defence Seals and bearings are critical to the for personal and vehicle protection.
NP Aerospaces pumps and compressors used in many uid composite technology, combined with Carbons ceramic technology, is driving the innovation of handling applications in industries such as new, lighter and more resilient protection systems chemical and food processing.
The Carbon to help counter ballistic threats.
With NP Aerospace, Division has a wide and expanding range the Carbon Division is at the forefront of vehicle and of carbon and silicon carbide materials.
Morgan is a globally recognised provider of seal faces, bearings, rotors, vanes and other technical solutions required for a large variety of uid handling applications.
Defence We provide critical components for the worlds sea, ground and air defence, from nuclear submarines and aircraft carriers to tactical and strategic ground vehicles and weapon systems, and xed and rotor winged ghters.
In each case, the distinctive characteristics of our advanced materials provide a special solution to a design need.
Our supply of a range of oxide and non-oxide ceramic technology solutions for vehicle and body armour applications ensures protection against new and emerging threats.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 30 Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Energy Mexico facility set for continued growth We provide the critical components that enable the power generation requirements The development of the Carbon Divisions facility in for today and the new emerging technologies Mexico demonstrates how operational excellence of tomorrow.
Whether its traditional power and continuous improvements in customer value delivery underpin the Divisions strategy.
From generation companies, the nuclear industry, its beginnings 50 years ago, following heavy solar power or wind energy generation, investment in manufacturing technology the Morgan is supplying advanced materials Mexican facility is a centre of excellence for the solutions to enable their growth.
In the solar nishing of electrical brushes and mechanical seal industry, Carbon is a world leader in the and bearing components for the North American supply of carbon and graphite felt and market.
The quality and cost prole of the plants output gives Carbon a competitive advantage in a cloth, machined and puried rigid board number of market sectors and investment continues and graphite components for solar silicon to ensure this position is sustained.
For wind power generation, Aerospace we supply material solutions and rotary Critical components manufactured of transfer systems that are able to perform carbon and graphite materials are required in the harshest environments around for a range of demanding aerospace the globe.
applications, including jet engine main Divisional performance shaft bearing seals, electrical brushes for The Carbon Division performed well in alternators and generators, bearings for fuel 2008 with all regions delivering growth.
pumps, and high temperature carbon fabrics Revenues for the full year were up by 10.8% for insulating systems.
The Carbon Division to 239.9 million 2007: 216.6 million.
plays a vital role in the worlds aerospace On a constant currency basis year on year industry, from commercial airlines and revenue growth was 1.3%.
We experienced military aircraft to the NASA Space Shuttle.
strong performance in high temperature Semiconductor processing products business during the year, as well as Carbon is at the heart of many electronic continued growth across all sectors in Asia.
innovations shaping todays world and is Weakening demand in the semiconductor used in semiconductor manufacturing sector during the second half, and a processes such as ion implantation, epitaxy softening at the year end in our electrical and compound crystal growth.
With the carbon brush and seals and bearings drive to faster, smaller and less expensive businesses dampened the Divisions devices, semiconductor processing year-on-year growth.
equipment companies are dependent on Divisional EBITA improved by 3.1% to advanced materials being able to work at 36.3 million 2007: 35.2 million, a margin higher temperatures and having higher of 15.1%.
The lock out situation in one of purity levels to achieve the desired our India facilities was resolved at the end of performance.
We now offer state-of-the-art October after nearly 12 months.
This situation purication capability and are working with along with the capacity constraint issues leading equipment OEMs to develop and experienced during the first quarter in our incorporate new materials technology.
US silicon carbide armour business impacted Carbon also supplies products used in the full year earnings and EBITA margins.
On a manufacture of components such as optical constant currency basis EBITA was down bres, laser diodes, and transistors for by 5.3%.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 31 Business review Governance Financial statements Our traditional business in electrical carbon Building upon technologies developed in Outlook brushes and seals and bearings held up well support of the US space shuttle programme, The Carbon Division continues to focus through most of the year.
Our brush business our high temperature insulation business on business segments that will provide us nished slightly below 2007 in Europe and grew signicantly in 2008.
Demand for with long-term attractive growth potential.
in the Americas, impacted by the global these products is driven by the processing of The progress made in 2008 in developing downturn in the last two months of the advanced materials for markets such as solar segments such as armour and high year.
Growth in Asia was tempered by energy and semiconductors.
A new rigid temperature insulation means that we the downturn, but again showed strong product line was successfully commissioned are less dependent on the more traditional, slower growth markets and have more year-on-year performance.
Our global seals in the second quarter, and additional exposure to global markets where we are and bearings business had solid growth in capacity for our soft felt product line was able to fully exploit our advanced materials the first half of the year but was also affected introduced in the third quarter.
Market and technology portfolio and provide high by the global slowdown, particularly in the demand is expected to continue to grow and value added, engineered solutions to a fourth quarter.
On a year-on-year basis sales our global presence means that we are well positioned to take advantage of this trend.
to these sectors at constant currency were broadly at.
We will continue to review our operational Business developments footprint and will ensure that we make full After several years of double digit growth, During the course of 2008 we continued to use of our low-cost manufacturing base.
our semiconductor business experienced a advance the Divisions technology portfolio, breadth of market reach, and presence The actions taken in recent years mean major contraction in the second half of the in high growth non-cyclical markets.
The that the Division is well placed for 2009. year along with the whole of that industry.
expansion of our high temperature product Although our traditional businesses face Our rotary business was impacted by the range has broadened our presence in the the challenges presented by the global slow down in the construction industry high growth solar energy sector and economic conditions, we do expect solid and major capital spend at a number of provides a solid foundation for continued growth in high temperature products and customers, though further progress was made in China and in the global wind growth and increased market penetration.
our newly acquired majority stake in NP energy sector.
Aerospace provides an exciting new During the second and third quarters we platform for growth and a very strong successfully transferred our Ceramor Our armour business in the Americas order book through 2009. armour technology from Canada to the showed good growth and significant progress has been made in establishing UK in order to strengthen the Divisions armour capability and capacity in Europe.
presence in the UK and Continental We continue to invest in our materials and European armour markets.
Subsequent to ballistic technologies to develop our product the year end Morgan Crucible increased its offering for both personal and tactical vehicle equity stake in NP Aerospace from 49% to a armour solutions.
Our investments have been 60% majority.
These two strategic initiatives strategically targeted to offer leading edge have positioned Morgan as the major solutions to both the US and European armour systems supplier in the UK with defence industries and have positioned the ability to offer this capability across a us well for future defence programmes.
NP Aerospace will be fully consolidated into the Morgan Crucible accounts for 2009.
