Northgate AR&A 2008 Front AW:x69614 Rhouse front p2 cg 23 7 08 16:31 Page 8 OPERATIONAL REVIEW VEHICLE FLEET AND UTILISATION FLEET MANAGEMENT VEHICLE FLEET AND UTILISATION STRATEGY FOR GROWTH In the UK, the fleet has increased from 65,300 to 68,600 vehicles, including Over 72,000 jobs were carried out in the year by Fleet Technique Limited In the first half of the financial year, the fleet increased by 8.2% to reach The year to 30 April 2008 is the second year that we are reporting against 1,600 vehicles relating to the acquisition of Hampsons and 270 vehicles FTL, our fleet management subsidiary, on behalf of our customers and 59,500 vehicles at 31 October 2007.
In the second six months, fleet growth, the three-year rolling strategic plan announced in January 2006.
The aim purchased from Abington, a growth rate of 5% 2% organically.
Although generating revenue of 15.5m, an increase of 13% over the prior year.
Within all organic, was 5.5% which produced a closing fleet of 62,750 vehicles.
was to maintain annual double-digit earnings growth through delivering below our target of 5%, organic growth has been stronger in the second this total were a number of significant contract wins, including becoming sole the following key elements of the plan: We have seen more churn in the hire fleet in the period since 1 January 2008 half, with the fleet increasing by 930 vehicles organically, compared to 500 supplier to a large construction company, a four year extension with a utilities due to a higher rate of off-hires, mainly from smaller businesses.
As higher in the traditionally stronger first half of the year.
company and the provision of scheduled maintenance management for a UK & REPUBLIC OF IRELAND churn makes it more difficult to maintain utilisation in the short term, we vehicle manufacturer.
An increase in fleet size from both acquisition and organic growth: consequently fell marginally below our targeted level of 90%.
Overall, however, We have successfully maintained a utilisation rate of 91% for the year, despite The introduction of fleet management to enable the Group to provide we still achieved an average of 89% for the year.
the last few months of the year experiencing a higher level of churn with There was also an improvement in operating efficiency within the business a comprehensive vehicle solutions product to customers: more frequent rental returns being compensated by additional business gains.
and in particular the employee cost per job, which fell by 9%.
Given the current state of the Spanish economy, we do not expect to achieve This demonstrates the value of our product to our customers alongside the A streamlining of the hire company network and management structure.
fleet growth at the same levels in the year ahead and are forecasting single The combination of the above produced an operating profit of 0.8m capability of our business model to react to changing circumstances.
2007 0.6m with an improved operating margin of 5% 2007 4.2%.
SPAIN remains our most important key performance indicator and the one on which Acquisition of the remaining 51% of the equity of Record: we focus whatever the prevailing economic climate.
Equally important however is the role played by FTL in helping to secure HIRE RATES Continued double-digit organic fleet growth: rental business, particularly from larger companies which require a full We continue to achieve a modest improvement in hire rates with the average HIRE RATES vehicle solutions package rather than just a rental offering.
This was recently The delivery of the synergies available from combining aspects rate up by 1% over the prior year in local currency.
While competition for new business remains keen, we have not experienced demonstrated when we secured our first complete fleet solutions offering of our two Spanish businesses.
the same level of downward pressure on hire rates last seen in 2005 06. with a FTSE listed support services company.
Following a fleet audit for USED VEHICLE SALES Consequently, as in the previous financial year, we have been able to this customer, we were able to identify the potential for reductions in CO2 NEW TERRITORY We sold 13,600 vehicles during the year 2007 12,200 at residual values maintain our hire rates at constant levels.
emissions and increased efficiencies, both operational and financial, through Expansion into a new jurisdiction.
In accordance with our our single sourced solution.
Every product in our portfolio will be utilised to accounting policies this has been reflected in our depreciation charge for USED VEHICLE SALES The last two objectives for the UK and the first objective for Spain were support a service that will cover over 1,800 vehicles.
We expect that the the year.
Of these disposals 4% 2007 5% were through semi-retail and Through the extended network of vehicle sales sites created last year, we completed in the year to 30 April 2007, leaving continued fleet growth in success of this project will enable Northgate to deliver similar fleet solutions retail channels.
have once again achieved a record number of disposals in the year with the UK and Spain and the merging of some activities in Spain as our key in the year ahead.
total sales of 26,800 vehicles 2007 24,700. targets for this year.
In the new financial year we plan to align operating procedures and vehicle holding periods in our two Spanish companies, Fualsa and Record, and as BODY REPAIR FACILITY The extended network and, in particular, the additional retail sites and our We are pleased that we have substantially achieved our targets, despite a a consequence would expect the depreciation charge in the year to increase On 31 August 2007 we acquired a dedicated body repair business, situated brand Van Monster have also enabled us to increase the proportion of more difficult economic climate and higher interest rates in the second half of in the Midlands, called GPS Body Repairs Limited GPS.
vehicles disposed of through our retail and semi-retail channels to achieve the year, thereby continuing our delivery of good growth in earnings per share.
has given us the capability to carry out a significantly higher proportion of our medium-term target of 20% through these channels 2007 16%.
The creation of a used vehicle disposals structure, with a capability similar to our body repair work in-house, thereby reducing both downtime and whole The continued supply of good quality vehicles being generated by the hire that of the UK, remains our medium-term goal and a key target for the business.
REVIEW OF CURRENT YEAR life cost.
Our intention is to replicate these facilities in other parts of the UK company network, which improved following the acquisition of the Arriva The property stage is well under way and during the next few months we to create a small network capable of handling a substantial part of our UNITED KINGDOM AND REPUBLIC OF IRELAND Vehicle Rental business in 2006, is also crucial to this success.
should have dedicated used vehicle sales locations operating in Barcelona, internal work.
A continued high level of utilisation and a stable hire rate environment Madrid, Murcia and Seville.
The development of other disposal channels The year has also seen one of the strongest used vehicle markets for some has produced an increase in hire revenues of 2.3%.
When combined with within Spain and the creation of an export capability are also progressing.
SPAIN time, driven by both good demand and a shortage of supply, particularly in a very strong residual market for used vehicles, particularly in the first half The fleet has grown during the year by 14% to 62,750 vehicles the first half of the year.
of the year, and some further efficiencies in operations, this has led to 2007 55,000, including 700 arising from the acquisition in July 2007 IT an increase in the operating margin to 20.6% 2007 20.4%.
As a consequence of both the improved sales channels and the buoyant of Alquiservicios.
While slightly behind our target rate of 15%, this is In May 2008 we successfully migrated Fualsa onto the Record operating system.
market, we have achieved residual prices 12m 2007 8.5m better than nevertheless an excellent achievement, particularly given the difficulties DEPOT NETWORK expected.
In accordance with our accounting policies this has been reflected the Spanish economy is experiencing.
This now gives us the opportunity to implement further synergies through Following the restructuring in the prior year, there has been little change in in our depreciation charge for the year.
the sharing of common support services as well as providing information the depot network, with the exception of the eight additional locations arising This fleet growth combined with utilisation of 89% 2007 90% and a to management on a comparable basis for both businesses.
from the acquisition of Hampsons.
By 30 April 2008, we operated through As we stated in our interim report, we expected the vehicle supply shortages modest improvement in hire rates has produced an increase in Spanish 21 hire companies with a network of 86 locations.
In the year ahead, we do to continue only in the short term and, since January this year, we have seen rental revenue of 24% 17% at constant exchange rates.
OTHER TERRITORIES not expect a material change to the overall number of locations, but would evidence of improved supply from manufacturers.
Concerns over the economy Benefits from economies of scale, particularly in purchasing, have partly expect to relocate certain primary and secondary sites to achieve our We continue to discuss potential opportunities with a number of target and the credit crunch affecting availability of finance have also caused a compensated for the additional depreciation charge arising from the weaker optimum operating structure and improve efficiencies.
companies within the European Union.
We expect to move forward with decrease in demand for second hand vehicles.
As a consequence, residual than expected used vehicle market and resulted in an operating margin of one of these opportunities in the current calendar year, as envisaged in prices have eased, particularly in the latter part of the financial year, as 21.8% 2007 22.4%.
evidenced by the split in the first half and second half adjustments to depreciation of 7m and 5m respectively.
Steve Smith DEPOT NETWORK Chief Executive The network of depots increased to 37 as a result of the acquisition of The first part of the current financial year has seen a further easing in Alquiservicios, with its branch in Orense.
In addition, we have relocated to used vehicle prices and, as in the prior year, this would be reflected in our larger premises in Barcelona, Pamplona and Zaragoza.
It is not anticipated depreciation charge.
Ongoing depreciation rates, in accordance with our that the network will change significantly in the year ahead as our current accounting policies, are reviewed regularly together with vehicles expected locations already provide good geographic coverage across Spain, although residual values and useful economic life.
there will again be a small number of relocations.
