20 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating review The groups range of services provides a total solution to meeting customers needs across the full life cycle of oil & gas facilities.
Petrofacs successful track record spans more than 25 years and several hundred projects and is firmly based on a partnership approach, a total commitment to health and safety and respect and responsibility for the communities in which it operates.
Photograph: Mesaieed complex, Qatar Business review 21 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating review Strategy Petrofac aims to generate sustainable growth in value for its shareholders by leveraging its core competencies, being the ability to engineer, build and operate oil & gas infrastructure, and the ability to create and deliver value-adding investments.
This means: working to world-class standards focusing always on customer satisfaction respecting the environment and being sensitive to the communities in which the group works promoting and rewarding on merit 22 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Generating predictable, long-term returns from a diversified Strategy continued portfolio of investments, leveraging the groups service capabilities in order to understand and manage better the risks involved The Energy Developments division provides the platform through which customers can access the groups services under innovative commercial structures that ensure complete alignment.
Petrofac aims to achieve this goal The division delivers investment support on upstream and infrastructure projects where the group is providing engineering through nine key strategic and construction or operations services.
Progress during the on investor, the group is able to better understand and manage the risks involved and therefore earn a differentiated return year against these initiatives is Energy Developments continues to appraise a number of outlined below: upstream and energy infrastructure opportunities.
The group has a strong balance sheet and is well placed to take advantage of any appropriate opportunities that may arise from the current Maintaining and improving on high safety standards operating environment Petrofac operates in some difficult and hazardous environments Details of Energy Developments existing portfolio are included on and the safety of the groups people is paramount at all times pages 36 and 37 In 2008, the groups employees and subcontractors completed 67 million man-hours 2007: 60 million of activity.
The groups Focusing on regions with major hydrocarbon reserves recordable incident frequency rate was 0.32 per 200,000 where significant capital and operational expenditures man-hours 2007: 0.35.
For the sixth year in a row this frequency are expected rate has reduced.
The groups lost time injury frequency rate was The group remains focused on its key markets of the UKCS, the 0.03 2007: 0.07 which compares well with industry published Middle East and Africa, the Commonwealth of Independent States data: however, further action is being taken to continue to improve particularly the Caspian region and the Asia Pacific regions performance While there are many attractive opportunities in other regions, The groups health and safety performance is reviewed in full on these key areas account for approximately 70% of the worlds 1 pages 49 and 50 in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report proven oil reserves and 85% of its gas reserves and significant capital and operational expenditures are expected to be focused Leveraging customer relationships by providing a range of in these regions.
The group considers there to be more than services across the life cycle of an asset enough opportunities in its core markets to underpin its medium The group is increasingly focused on the provision of an to long-term growth plans integrated service, which was a major driver of its recent group reorganisation see pages 18 and 19 for details.
For example: Expanding Petrofacs established service offering into new In Tunisia, the Chergui gas plant, in which Energy Developments countries and regions has a 45% operated interest, achieved first gas in June 2008, As noted in the 2007 Annual Report, Saudi Arabia was identified less than 18 months from investing in the project.
The project as a potentially significant market for the Engineering & required the completion of a part-built gas plant on Kerkennah Construction division over the medium to long-term.
The division Island and construction of a 60km pipeline, approximately half was actively bidding for projects in the Kingdom during 2008 and of which is beneath the sea.
The Engineering & Construction was awarded a project with Saudi Aramco in early 2009 for the division project-managed the completion of the pipeline utilities and cogeneration package for the Karan gas development.
and facilities, while the Operations Services division The division has established a subsidiary in-Kingdom and aims provided emergency response and health and safety to develop a long-term engineering and project management training, commissioned the plant and is now operating the capability in the Kingdom completed development In September 2008, the Engineering & Construction division In the UKCS, the groups businesses are working together to announced the establishment of Petrofac Emirates, a joint venture bring the Don Southwest and West Don projects onstream with Mubadala Petroleum Services Company LLC, a wholly through Energy Developments, the group has a 60% interest owned subsidiary of Mubadala Development Company.
Petrofac in Don Southwest and a 28% interest in West Don.
In January Emirates will be based in Abu Dhabi and will provide a full range 2008, Energy Developments announced that it had signed an of engineering, design, procurement and construction services for agreement, as operator, on behalf of itself and its co-venturers, onshore oil & gas, refining and petrochemical projects throughout for the provision of the Northern Producer floating production the United Arab Emirates.
Selected management and engineering facility.
Modifications to the Northern Producer were carried out staff from the Engineering & Construction division in Sharjah will during the year to refurbish and extend the life of the vessel, be assigned to the joint venture in order to help establish its initial which was safely moored on location in November 2008.
The business structure and operating procedures.
With a strong Operations Services division will provide operations services bidding pipeline of opportunities in Abu Dhabi, the division and will be the Duty Holder for the Northern Producer.
The expects to have a world-class engineering centre in Abu Dhabi Engineering & Construction division continues to manage the with several hundred full-time staff within the next few years sub-sea infrastructure scope.
The Don projects remain on In January 2009, the Engineering & Construction division budget and on schedule to achieve first oil during the first half announced a US$2.3 billion award with Abu Dhabi Company for of 2009 Onshore Oil Operations ADCO see page 32, which will help the division to establish what it hopes will be a long-term and successful business in the Emirate 1 As per the Energy Information Administration of the US Department of Energy, as at 9 February 2009.
Oil reserves include 173 billion barrels of Canadian oil sand reserves.
Business review 23 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating review 02 Leveraging customer relationships 01 Maintaining and improving on high safety standards 03 Generating predictable, long-term returns from a diversified 04 portfolio of Focusing on investments regions with major hydrocarbon reserves 06 05 Assisting customers Expanding in achieving their local Petrofacs content goals established service offering into new countries and regions 07 08 09 Improving revenue Attracting and Developing and earnings retaining specialists complementary stability and key personnel businesses 24 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Accessing international labour markets, including through Strategy continued graduate recruitment, in particular in the Middle East, the Indian Subcontinent and Asia, for example: The group opened a new office in Chennai in April 2007 to support the Engineering & Construction division, which now has over 450 employees and is considering further new office locations in India Assisting customers in achieving their local content goals In early 2008, the Engineering & Construction division agreed by increasing the use of local resources and improving the to establish a joint venture with IKPT, an Indonesian competence and technical skills of national workforces engineering and construction company.
The joint venture will A key factor in the delivery of strong execution performance is the provide project management, engineering, procurement and groups engagement with local resources, through recruiting in construction management services for oil, gas and the local market and establishing long-term relationships with petrochemical projects outside Indonesia local subcontractors, particularly construction subcontractors.
The management of employee attrition by focusing on These relationships increase the local content on projects and promoting and rewarding on merit, expanding employee share ensure that the group operates responsibly through improving the ownership see page 51 for details, the groups commitment to competence and skills of local workforces training, its involvement in world-class projects and exciting Petrofac Training plays an important role in developing the prospects for continued growth competence and technical skills of national workforces.
During The group has taken steps to broaden the groups senior the year, Petrofac Training continued to expand the international management, which is critical to the groups plans for further delivery of its competence-led training services, including: the growth.
One such appointment during the year was the new opening of a new technical training centre on Sakhalin Island: position of Group Head of Human Resources HR, who will assist the opening of a health and safety and major emergency the group in further developing its HR strategy, including timely management training centre in Houston: securing a contract, for consideration of succession management a minimum of three years, to manage the Chemical Process Going forward, the group may look to benefit from any softening Technology Centre CPTC in Singapore: and, establishing the in the recruitment market as a result of the recent change in the Dubai Petroleum Training Centre DPTC, a joint venture with general business environment, particularly in Engineering & Dubai Petroleum.
The Training business now manages 16 training Construction, where the division may look to increase headcount, facilities in eight countries particularly in relation to its construction management capability As noted on page 34 and below, the group made two acquisitions Improving revenue and earnings stability through a during the year, which, while not adding a large number of diversified and complementary business model employees, brought highly skilled production engineering and The majority of the groups large-scale engineering, procurement technology specialists into the group and construction EPC contracts are executed on a lump-sum basis, though the construction elements of these contracts may Identifying, acquiring, integrating and developing alternatively be undertaken on a reimbursable or fee basis complementary businesses, where appropriate construction management.
Large-scale EPC contracts typically As well as strong organic growth, the group has a history take two to three years to complete of broadening its capability through the acquisition of Operations, maintenance and training services and conceptual, complementary businesses front-end and offshore engineering services are typically delivered In July 2008, the group completed the acquisition of Eclipse on a cost-plus reimbursable basis: however, a growing Petroleum Technology Limited Eclipse, a production engineering contribution from these services is linked to the achievement of specialist, for an initial consideration of 7 million.
Eclipses key performance indicators KPIs.
Many of these contracts are life-of-field services include: field development, production long-term typically three to five years and in the case of the modelling and optimisation, well lifecycle risk management and groups operations management for example, Duty Holder petroleum engineering functional consulting contracts, are often life-of-field In August 2008, the group completed the acquisition of Caltec Through Energy Developments, the group is prepared, selectively, Limited Caltec for an initial consideration of 15 million.
Caltec is to invest its own capital, alongside that of its customers and a specialist production technology company with products aimed partners and, in so doing, ensure complete alignment with the at the enhancement of production from mature fields.
Such exposure to the risks, as well include the Wellcom system which boosts production flowrates by as rewards, of a developments performance can be structured in splitting and separately boosting the components of multi-phase a number of ways, including quasi-equity structures or direct flows and the I-SEP system which separates gas and liquids equity investments utilising only the energy from the incoming process stream These recent acquisitions complement the well construction and Attracting and retaining recognised specialists and key well management services provided by SPD Group, which was personnel managing succession issues acquired in January 2007 and, along with other existing group Although skilled personnel have been in unprecedented demand, businesses, will offer the groups customers significant the group has been successful in growing its employee base from production, recovery and longevity improvements, particularly approximately 9,800 at 31 December 2007 to approximately for mature fields, as part of the newly formed Production 11,100 at 31 December 2008 Solutions business The majority of the growth has been in the Engineering & Construction division, where employee numbers have increased 1 to approximately 4,900 31 December 2007: 3,900.
The group has achieved this strong growth through: 1 Including the groups share of around 100 joint venture employees.
Business review 25 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating review 1 2 1.
E n route to Cendor MOPU offshore facility, Malaysia 26 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Key performance indicators To help the group assess its performance, the Board and executive management set annual KPI targets and monitor and assess performance against these benchmarks on a monthly basis throughout the year.
Throughout this Business Review, performance is assessed with reference to these KPIs, the annual measures of which are presented here.
Return on capital employed ROCE ROCE is a measure of the efficiency with which the group is generating operating profits from its capital.
ROCE is calculated as EBITA earnings before interest, tax, amortisation and impairment charges calculated as EBITDA less depreciation per note 3 to the financial statements divided by average capital employed being total equity and non-current liabilities per the consolidated balance sheet.
% 06 45.7 07 45.7 08 52.7 Lost time injury and recordable injury Revenue frequency rates Measures the level of operating activity and growth of the business.
Provides a measure of the safety performance of the group, including partners.
Revenue for the year as reported in the consolidated income statement.
Lost time injury LTI and recordable injury RI frequency rates are measured on the basis of reported LTI and RI statistics for all Petrofac companies, subcontractors and partners, expressed as a frequency rate per 200,000 man hours.
Lost time injury rates per 200,000 man hours 06 0.06 07 0.07 08 0.03 Recordable injury rates per 200,000 man hours US$ millions 06 1,864 06 0.41 07 2,440 07 0.35 08 3,330 08 0.32 as restated Business review 27 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating review Backlog Cash generated from operations Net profit and cash conversion The group uses this KPI as a measure of the Provides a measure of the net profitability of the visibility of future earnings.
business, that is, profits available for distribution These KPIs measure both the absolute amount of before taking into account minority interests.
Backlog consists of the estimated revenue attributable cash generated from operations and the conversion of EBITDA to cash.
to the uncompleted portion of lump-sum engineering, Profit for the year as reported in the consolidated procurement and construction contracts and variation income statement.
Cash generated from operations is as per the orders plus, with regard to engineering services and consolidated cash flow statement: cash conversion facilities management contracts, the estimated revenue is cash from operations divided by EBITDA.
attributable to the lesser of the remaining term of the contract and, in the case of life-of-field facilities management contracts, five years: backlog is not an audited measure: other companies in the oil & gas industry may calculate this measure differently.
US$ millions 06 328.6 07 371.6 08 565.7 US$ millions US$ millions % 06 4,173 06 120.3 06 165.7 07 4,441 07 123.3 07 188.7 08 3,997 08 135.0 08 265.0 Employee numbers EBITDA Earnings per share diluted EPS Provides an indication of the groups service EBITDA means earnings before interest, tax, EPS provides a measure of net profitability of the capacity.
depreciation, amortisation and impairment and group taking into account changes in the capital provides a measure of the operating profitability structure, for example, the issuance of additional For the purposes of the Annual Report, employee of the business.
numbers include agency, contract staff and the groups share of joint venture employees in previous EBITDA is calculated as profit before tax and net finance As reported in the consolidated income statement and years the Annual Report has excluded the groups income as per the consolidated income statement calculated in accordance with note 7 to the financial share of joint venture employees, however, these may adjusted to add back charges for depreciation, statements.
become material following joint venture relationships amortisation and impairment charges as per note 3 established during the year.
Number of employees approximately US$ millions Cents per share 06 198.3 06 8,100 06 34.87 07 301.3 07 9,800 07 54.61 08 419.0 08 11,100 08 77.11 as restated 28 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Health, safety and environmental performance Key risks and uncertainties Petrofacs strong culture of health, safety and environmental HSE awareness is central to its operational and business activities and is vital to the groups system of business management and integral to delivery of quality and business excellence.
Particularly, as the group enters new geographical markets, sometimes with new There are a number of risks and uncertainties which may customers and partners, and assumes responsibility for new have an impact on the accuracy of forward-looking infrastructure, it is imperative that its focus on HSE is maintained.
statements, the financial performance of the group and The groups financial exposure to a significant HSE incident is its share price.
These are explained below, along with the generally mitigated through its commercial arrangements and approach to managing the risk or uncertainty.
insurance programme, though an incident may have a financial impact on the groups KPI income.
The groups main exposure to The list below does not purport to be exhaustive.
There may be such an incident is the reputational risk.
other risks and uncertainties, not presently known to the group or that the group currently deems to be immaterial, that could affect Business continuity the performance of the business.
The group is potentially exposed to, inter alia, natural hazards, acts of terrorism, war and civil unrest that could impact its infrastructure, Operational risk either through the unavailability of physical assets or access to Performance of contracts systems and procedures.
The group mitigates this risk through its The groups financial performance could be materially affected by business continuity plan, which seeks to minimise disruption from the performance of a relatively small number of large contracts, any such threat, in part by ensuring that alternative systems and particularly those which are lump-sum.
Furthermore, the groups facilities are available.
operational performance is important in maintaining its reputation for successful project delivery.
The group has a strong track-record Regulatory compliance risk of successful project execution which reflects its rigorous approach Breach of legal or regulatory code to risk identification and mitigation, from tender through to project The group recognises the potential financial and reputational risk completion.
An internal control framework, which exists to ensure that could result from a failure in its system of internal controls, that the quality, schedule and budget of projects, is regularly particularly with respect to HSE, employment law, taxation, Listing reviewed.
The progress made on key projects is formally reported Rules, ethical standards, bribery, corruption and fraud.
As noted in to the Board and senior management on a regular basis.
As the Corporate Governance report on pages 61 to 65, the group regards financial performance, the group does not recognise operates a number of policies and procedures to address these profits in the early stages of lump-sum contracts and maintains risks, including a recently revised Code of Business Conduct.
contingencies to cover any estimated excess of contract costs over related revenues.
Market risk Level of demand for the groups services Loss of essential executive or project staff The demand for the groups services is linked to the level of The availability of skilled personnel remains one of the most expenditure by the oil & gas industry.
However, as noted in the significant challenges facing the oil & gas industry.
The group section Operating Environment, while there is some short-term remains confident that its efforts to promote and reward on merit, uncertainty due to the wider economic climate, the group expects targeted employee share ownership, management and technician the demand for its services to remain robust over the long-term.
The training programmes and recruitment strategies, access to groups recent success in securing new and substantial contract international labour markets, in particular the Middle East, Indian awards gives it good visibility of revenues through to 2011.
Subcontinent and Asia, involvement in world-class projects and exciting prospects for continued growth will enable the group to attract and retain the necessary skilled personnel to undertake its projects in hand.
The availability of skilled personnel may ease over the short-term due to the recent change in economic conditions and the group will assess opportunities to increase headcount where appropriate.
Business review 29 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating review Change of political, social or economic factors in key regions Oil price Petrofac and its predecessor companies have more than 25 years Long-term expectations of the price of oil & gas may have an of experience of working in international markets.
A detailed risk impact on the level of new investment in the industry and may review process is undertaken when assessing whether the group therefore affect demand for the groups services: however, the should enter into a new contract or country, which is designed to service divisions should not be significantly impacted by short-term ensure that key risks are identified and monitored and appropriate fluctuations in the oil price see Operating Environment.
The group remains exposed to countryfinancial performance of the Energy Developments division is more specific risks, such as a change in taxation regime, however, the heavily leveraged to the price of oil & gas through its co-investment diversity of the groups geographical footprint, the commercial in upstream oil & gas assets.
Where oil price risk exists, for terms of its contracts and, where considered appropriate, its example, on the Cendor project, where the division benefits from insurance framework, all mitigate against country-specific risks.
approximately 30% of the upside of the oil price above an agreed base price, the group will look to hedge an appropriate proportion Cost inflation of the exposure, typically between 50% and 75% of its lower While the majority of the costs of operations and engineering estimate of forecast production.
The group will not consider services contracts are reimbursed by customers, either on an hedging until an asset has achieved steady-state production.
actual cost basis or through a periodically revised schedule of rates, the groups largest exposure to cost inflation is in its provision Credit risk of lump-sum Engineering & Construction services.
These exposures Given the recent change in economic conditions, there is an are managed before and after bid submission as follows: increased risk of counterparties defaulting on payment terms.
The conditional on the award of a major contract, the group will typically group receives advance payments on the majority of its lump-sum negotiate agreements to procure equipment and or arrangements contracts, which generally have positive cash flow profiles over the with key subcontractors, on back-to-back terms where possible duration of the contract.
This gives the group added protection in expectations of wage inflation are factored into project costings the unlikely event that a customer seeks to cancel or dispute the for bid submissions and budgets terms of a contract.
In the Operations Services division, Duty 1 the group maintains contingencies to cover unforeseen Holder contracts are generally neutrally-funded.
In general, cost increases services provided by the group are critical to ensure that customers continue production and, consequently, customers are likely to The exposure to increases in capital expenditure costs associated honour payment terms.
In the Energy Developments division, with Energy Developments projects is managed in a similar remuneration is from oil & gas sales to a range of customers, manner to Engineering & Construction lump-sum projects.
including National Oil Companies NOCs, who are generally well-funded.
Nonetheless, the group continues to regularly monitor Exchange rates its receivable balances and take appropriate action where necessary.
While the group operates in a number of diverse geographical locations, the majority of its revenues are denominated in US With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets, the dollars or currencies pegged to the US dollar.
In contracts priced in group regularly monitors its exposures and ensures that its financial US dollars or currencies pegged to the US dollar where the group assets are spread across a large number of creditworthy financial is procuring equipment or incurring costs in other currencies, these institutions.
exposures are actively managed at a project level using forward currency contracts.
The bulk of the Operations Services divisions Further analysis of credit risk and other financial risks associated revenues and costs are denominated in Sterling, however, as a with or managed through the use of financial instruments, such as policy, the group does not hedge the Sterling profits generated by interest rate and liquidity risk, are disclosed in note 31 to the these activities as they are substantially matched by Sterling group financial statements.
While the group reports its results in US dollars, its share price is quoted in Sterling.
The share price may therefore be 1 That is contracts where the group takes full responsibility for managing a impacted by changes to the US dollar Sterling exchange rate.
customers asset and is responsible for the safety case of the asset, reporting to the Department of Energy and Climate Change.
30 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 The groups core markets for its Engineering & Construction Operating environment business are in areas where development and production costs are generally lower than average, such as onshore developments in the Middle East and Africa.
The group expects that the majority of key strategic projects in these regions will progress, as customers take a long-term view on the economic outlook and the oil price.
Long-term drivers remain robust In particular, many NOCs in the region are well-financed and Despite recent events which have led to a downturn in expectations do not have to address the challenges faced by International Oil for short to medium-term growth rates for the global economy, Companies IOCs in allocating funds between capital expenditure the long-term factors that drive demand for the groups services programmes and paying dividends to shareholders.
important customers for the group, though it should also be recognised that IOCs often partner with NOCs on major projects.
While there is expected to be a decline in the global demand for oil Nonetheless, the group considers that its exposure to NOCs and to 1 & gas in 2009 compared to 2008, the International Energy Agency lower-cost developments positions it well.
Furthermore, the groups IEA estimates that global demand for oil will increase by 25% from recent Engineering & Construction awards provide good visibility of current levels of around 85 million barrels per day bpd to around revenues for 2009 and 2010 and, consequently, of equal focus for 2 106 million bpd by 2030, while global demand for gas is expected the coming months is continuing the groups excellent track-record to increase by just over 50% from around 49 million bpd of oil of project execution.
equivalent to 74 million bpd of oil equivalent over the same period.
Population growth and increasing energy intensity, particularly in Operational expenditures expected to remain robust countries such as China and India, and to a lesser extent in the Approximately 29% of the groups revenue in 2008 was generated Middle East, are expected to drive the majority of this increase.
by the Operations Services division, where activities are principally focused in the UKCS and the UAE.
Operating expenditures are On the supply side, the IEA estimates that mature production will generally expected to remain robust, as the group expects to 3 decline by around 9% per annum without intervention.
Even with maintain services to its customers as they continue to operate their intervention to arrest the decline, the IEA estimates that depletion facilities.
Should customers take a view on long-term oil & gas rates are running at around 6.5% per annum, broadly equivalent to prices such that continued production is considered uneconomic, losing the existing production of Saudi Arabia every two years.
they may decide to cease production: however, this could lead to opportunities for the group to provide services in relation to Therefore, over the long-term, significant investment is required ready-for-shutdown and decommissioning activities.
The group 4 to replace existing production and to build new capacity.
does not consider this to be a likely scenario in the short-term.
Consequently, demand for the groups Engineering & Construction The groups businesses that are more reliant upon customers services is expected to remain robust over the long-term.
discretionary spend, such as parts of Training and some of the groups consultancy businesses, are expected to face a more Sharp fall in oil price creates uncertainty over timing of challenging environment over the next few months.
capital expenditures The recent change in global economic conditions has resulted in Opportunities for Energy Developments a significant fall in the oil price, as weakening demand has resulted With more challenging access to debt and equity markets, in excess production capacity.
With more uncertain economic a number of smaller independent oil companies, may face conditions, difficult access to funding, a lower oil price, and more difficulties in obtaining the funding they require to complete importantly, uncertainty regarding future expectations of the oil developments.
With its strong balance sheet, this may give the price, some upstream oil & gas projects have been subject to group, through its Energy Developments division, opportunities to cancellation or postponement.
The majority of project invest in development assets and to provide services to bring cancellations, however, have been in high-cost production areas development projects onstream.
which are not focus areas for the group, such as Canadian oil sands or deepwater developments.
It would seem likely, given the Conclusion long-term drivers outlined above, that these projects will still Notwithstanding current economic conditions, the group considers proceed at some point in the future, albeit the timing may be less itself well positioned.
The group has a strong balance sheet, with certain.
Even where projects are economic at lower oil prices, there more than US$550 million of net cash at 31 December 2008 and is evidence that customers have postponed capital expenditure expects to be able to fund its continued growth plans from cash decisions as they adjust to the recent change in economic generated by the business.
The geographic areas in which the conditions and try to benefit from lower external supplier costs.
groups Engineering & Construction services are focused should ensure that its long-term prospects remain robust.
In the short to medium-term, the groups recent awards provide good visibility of revenues through to 2011.
1 From 85.7 million bpd in 2008 to 84.7 million bpd in 2009, International Energy Agency Oil Market Report, 11 February 2009.
2 International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2008, November 2008.
3 For post-peak fields, International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2008, November 2008.
4 The IEA estimates that in total US$11.8 trillion in 2007 terms requires to be spent on oil & gas infrastructure over the period 2007-2030, World Energy Outlook 2008, November 2008. Business review 31 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating review Forecast demand growth and supply decline 100 Demand expected to grow 1.6% per year 80 60 40 20 0 2008 2030 Source: Compiled from IEA data, World Energy Outlook 2008 Existing production New production By 2030, new production capacity of more than 70% of the existing base will be required to meet demand Energy intensity by region Oil consumption 2006 oil demand Population per capita mbbls year millions bbls North America 9,100 450 20 Europe 5,200 540 10 OECD 17,300 1,190 15 Middle East 2,200 190 12 China 2,600 1,320 2 India 1,000 1,130 1 Cost structure of existing production 120 Unconventional reinvestment with subsidies 100 Curve likely to move to left as mature elds deplete Marginal cost of supply less efficient oil sands 80 Traditional reinvestment deep water and some oil sands 60 Major oils today 40 Gulf OPEC Core Petrofac markets 20 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Hydrocarbon liquids millions of barrels per day Source: Credit Suisse research, 2008, arrow, oval and italicised text added 2008 revenue by geographic region 52% Middle East and Africa 24% CIS Asia Pacific 24% Europe 16% ROCE WTI price $ per boe Oil production and demand mbpd 32 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 also on the Karachaganak development, the division has Review of operations commenced the fourth stage of the Phase III development FEED study, the divisions largest FEED study to date.
Following BG Group and KazMunaiGass review of alternative phasing of the full Phase III capital commitment, the division expects to continue to provide reimbursable services well into 2009, albeit with a Engineering & Construction reduced number of personnel The Engineering & Construction division achieved strong on the Kashagan project, the construction management contract growth and continued to deliver good operational in relation to the oil, gas and sulphur processing facilities, which performance during the year.
Order intake in 2008 totalled was awarded in January 2006, has been extended for a further in excess of US$2.0 billion and the division has continued to 12 months to the end of 2009, with a further 12-month option be active in bidding activity on a number of other prospects, substantial progress was made on the engineering, procurement which has resulted in securing a further US$2.8 billion of and construction management contract for the Kashagan third oil new contract awards since the year end.
train, awarded in late 2007 the FEED study for the Kharyaga development, awarded in late Middle East and North Africa 2007, has been substantially completed The division made good progress on its current portfolio of contracts in the Middle East and North Africa, including: The division secured a further EPC award in the region during mobilisation activities, detailed engineering and early construction the year: work on the In Salah gas compression project in Algeria for Sonatrach, BP and StatoilHydro, which was awarded in late 2007 Kashagan fourth sales gas compressor train and further progress on the Harweel cluster development project for debottlenecking modifications, Kazakhstan Petroleum Development Oman PDO, which is scheduled for In April 2008, the division secured further work on the Kashagan completion around the end of 2009 field development project with the award of a lump-sum scope significant progress on the Salam and Hasdrubal gas plants in US$105 million project and a US$10 million optional scope to Egypt and Tunisia, for Khalda Petroleum and BG Group engineer and procure a fourth sales gas compressor train within respectively, which are both scheduled for completion in the first the Kashagan gas and liquefied petroleum gas LPG plant and half of 2009 undertake debottlenecking modifications to tranches 1 and 2 of the substantial completion of the Kuwait Oil Company KOC facilities gas treatment plant.
The project is necessary to accommodate the upgrade project in Kuwait additional gas associated with the processing of the production from the third oil train.
Furthermore, the division secured three new EPC awards in the region during the year: Since the end of 2008, the division has been successful in securing the following new awards: Jihar gas plant, Syria In March 2008, the division was awarded a US$454 million Asab field development, Abu Dhabi lump-sum EPC contract to build the Jihar gas treatment plant In January 2009, the division secured its largest contract to date for the Hayan Petroleum Company a joint venture between the with the award of a US$2.3 billion contract with Abu Dhabi state-owned Syrian Petroleum Company and INA Industrija Nafte Company for Onshore Oil Operations ADCO for the development d. d. -Naftaplin of Croatia, which is scheduled to be delivered in the of the onshore Asab oil field.
Under the 44-month lump-sum first quarter of 2011. contract, the division will provide EPC services to upgrade the production capacity of the Asab field, upgrade the facilitys Ebla gas plant, Syria capacity to accept increased production from other fields and In April 2008, the division secured a further award in Syria for the upgrade the associated utilities and water handling facilities.
US$556 million including variation orders for novated items received shortly after award lump-sum EPC contract to build the Karan utilities and co-generation package, Saudi Arabia Ebla gas treatment plant for Petro-Canada, which is expected to be In February 2009, the division was awarded an EPC contract for completed in the first half of 2010.
Saudi Aramcos Karan utilities and co-generation package.
The project forms part of the Karan gas development programme which Mina Al-Ahmadi refinery pipelines, Kuwait will expand the Khursaniyah gas plant, in the Eastern Province of In November 2008, the division announced that it had been Saudi Arabia, to accommodate around 1.8 billion standard cubic awarded a US$543 million lump-sum EPC contract by the Kuwait feet per day of high pressure sour gas from the offshore Karan field.
The contract is for a new gas pipeline running The division will also upgrade the plants process controls, from KOCs Booster Station 131 in North Kuwait to its liquefied electrical systems and support facilities.
petroleum gas plant located at the Mina Al-Ahmadi refinery.
The project is expected to run for 21 months.
Results The Engineering & Construction division achieved strong revenue Commonwealth of Independent States growth in the year due to high levels of activity on the divisions The division continues to be involved on both the Kashagan and lump-sum EPC projects in hand at the beginning of the year and on Karachaganak programmes, two of Kazakhstans multi-billion dollar new projects secured during the year.
Revenue increased by 56.9% multi-phase developments.
Progress during the year included: to US$2,219.4 million 2007: US$1,414.9 million.
Net margin on the Karachaganak development, the division has largely increased to 10.1% 2007: 9.7% as the division continued its strong completed the engineering and procurement contract and has execution performance.
The strong growth in revenue and net undertaken early works under the construction management margin improvement led to an increase in net profit of 63.5% to contract for the fourth stabilisation and sweetening train, which US$224.1 million 2007: US$137.1 million.
The main contributors to was awarded in January 2007 revenue in the lump-sum EPC business were: the Ebla gas plant in Syria: the Harweel project in Oman: the Hasdrubal gas plant in Subsequent to the approval of the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts by the Directors on 6 March 2009, the group announced a further lump-sum EPC award for the El Merk project in Algeria, with a contract value of US$2.2 billion.
This takes the total of the groups new contract awards in 2009 to US$5.0 billion.
Business review 33 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating review 2 1 3 1.
Kashagan, Kazakhstan Engineering & Construction revenue US$ millions 06 1,081.3 Tunisia: the In Salah gas compression project in Algeria: the third oil and fourth sales gas compressor trains on the Kashagan 07 1,414.9 development in Kazakhstan: the Karachaganak fourth stabilisation 08 2,219.4 and sweetening train in Kazakhstan: and, the Salam gas plant in Egypt.
Engineering & Construction net profit During the year, the Engineering & Construction division grew its margin headcount by approximately 1,000 to approximately 4,900 at % 31 December 2008 31 December 2007: 3,900 due to a significant increase in the number of employees across the divisions project 06 8.8 sites and the addition of more than 250 personnel in the Chennai office, which opened in April 2007, and now has approximately 07 9.7 450 employees.
08 10.1 The divisions backlog was US$2.4 billion at 31 December 2008 31 December 2007: US$2.5 billion and a further US$2.8 billion of contracts have been added to backlog to date in 2009.
Engineering & Construction backlog US$ millions 06 2,228 07 2,540 08 2,408 34 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Acquisitions Review of operations continued In July 2008, the division completed the acquisition of Eclipse Petroleum Technology Limited Eclipse, a production engineering specialist, for an initial consideration of 7 million.
Further consideration in cash and shares will be determined by the level of future profitability of Eclipse, which could increase the total Operations Services consideration up to a maximum of 16 million.
Eclipse was founded During the year, the Operations Services division continued in 1999 and has approximately 50 employees operating from five to make good progress on its current portfolio of projects, offices worldwide: Aberdeen, London, Stavanger, Houston and secured an additional Duty Holder contract for the Northern Dubai.
Its life-of-field services include: field development, Producer floating production facility and established a production modelling and optimisation, well life-cycle risk number of new training centres.
The acquisition of a management and petroleum engineering functional consulting.
production engineering company and a technology company in the second half of the year will position the In August 2008, the division completed the acquisition of Caltec group, in conjunction with a number of its existing Limited Caltec, a specialist production technology company, businesses, to deliver solutions that enhance and improve for an initial consideration of 15 million.
Further consideration production for its customers, particularly in mature fields.
in cash and shares will be determined by the achievement of agreed milestones, with the total consideration being capped at Dubai Petroleum 30 million.
Caltec was founded in 2003, after some years as a The divisions largest project is the Dubai Petroleum service operator part of the British Hydromechanics Research Group Limited, an contract, which commenced in April 2007.
The core contract independent private company with close ties to Cranfield University.
continues to progress well with particular focus on production The company has approximately 20 members of staff operating efficiency and integrity and there were significant levels of brownfield from both Cranfield and Aberdeen.
Its technologies include a engineering and drilling activity during the year.
Furthermore, the number of products aimed at the production enhancement of Dubai Petroleum Training Centre DPTC, a joint venture between mature fields, including the Wellcom system which boosts Petrofac Training and Dubai Petroleum, was formally opened at the production flowrates by lowering wellhead pressures, and the end of August 2008.
The DPTC is fully equipped to meet the I-SEP system which allows the partial separation of water from technical safety training needs of the energy sector throughout the high water-cut production streams.
In combination, these systems Middle East and supports a full calendar of courses.
are capable of significant production, recovery and longevity improvements for mature fields.
Other Facilities Management In June 2008, the Facilities Management business was awarded a These acquisitions complement the divisions well operations Duty Holder contract to provide turnkey operations services for the management business, SPD, acquired in January 2007, and will Northern Producer, the floating production facility for the Petrofac combine with SPD and other existing businesses to further Energy  Don fields in the UK North Sea broaden the groups capability, which now extends from the see page 36.
The contract is worth approximately US$30 million management of surface facilities and well operations, to the ability per annum.
The Northern Producer is well known to the Operations to deliver solutions that enhance and improve production, particularly Services division as it marked the commencement of the divisions in mature fields.
Going forward, these businesses will form the pioneering Duty Holder model on the Galley field, more than ten foundations of the new Production Solutions business unit see years ago, latterly for Talisman, before the facility was demobilised pages 18 and 19. from the field in late 2007.
The Facilities Management business was successful in securing a two-year extension of its Duty Holder Results contract with Venture Production for the Kittiwake platform, Revenue for the Operations Services division increased to effective from November 2008, and with BHP Billiton for the Irish US$982.4 million 2007: US$911.0 million, an increase of 7.8%.
Revenue excluding pass-through revenue increased by 3.3%, though on a constant-currency basis the increase was approximately 2 In addition to work with Dubai Petroleum, the Brownfield 11%, primarily due to: a full year contribution from the Dubai engineering business secured a number of new awards during Petroleum contract: strong growth in SPD: new training facilities 2008, including follow-on work with Venture Production in the operated by Petrofac Training: the opening of a mechanical service Greater Kittiwake area, and internationally in Abu Dhabi and centre in the Jebel Ali Free Zone in the United Arab Emirates: and, Tunisia.
Brownfield engineering has now developed the capability the contribution from the newly acquired Eclipse and Caltec 3 to undertake larger-scale international projects.
Net profit increased by 10.1% to US$31.8 million 2007: US$28.9 million, representing a net margin on revenue Petrofac Training excluding pass-through revenue of 4.5% 2007: 4.2%.
The In addition to the Dubai Petroleum Training Centre referred to underlying net margin, adjusted to eliminate amortisation of above, Petrofac Training has continued to expand the international intangible assets and finance costs relating to deferred consideration, delivery of its training services, including the opening of: a new increased to 5.1% 2007: 4.7% due principally to improved margins technical training centre on Sakhalin Island: a health and safety and in the Facilities Management business in the UK and internationally, major emergency management training centre in Houston: a major which more than offset slower than anticipated build-up in activity emergency management facility in Kuala Lumpur: and, a new in some of the new training facilities opened during the year, where safety training centre in Baku, Azerbaijan.
Furthermore, in June the business model is more highly operationally geared.
2008, Petrofac Training secured a contract, for a minimum of three years, to manage the Chemical Process Technology Centre CPTC Operations Services employee numbers grew to approximately in Singapore.
The CPTC is a world-class training centre, owned by 5,800 at 31 December 2008 31 December 2007: 5,500. the Economic Development Board of Singapore, with facilities which include a full-scale hydrocarbon processing plant and The divisions backlog was US$1.6 billion at 31 December 2008 specialist equipment laboratories, which facilitates operations and 2007: US$1.9 billion, however, the majority of the divisions maintenance training, including start-up, shutdown and emergency backlog is denominated in Sterling and on a constant currency response exercises.
Petrofac Training now manages 16 training basis at 31 December 2007 exchange rates increased marginally facilities in eight countries.
Business review 35 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating review 1 2 1.
Northern Producer, Don field Operations Services revenue Operations Services net profit margin US$ millions excluding pass-through revenue % 06 729.2 06 3.6 07 911.0 07 4.2 08 982.4 08 4.5 Operations Services backlog 1 Pass-through revenue refers to the revenue recognised from low or zeroUS$ millions margin third-party procurement services provided to customers.
2 The majority of the Operations Services divisions revenues are denominated in Sterling.
The average US dollar to Sterling exchange rate for 2008 was 1.85 06 1,945 compared to 2.01 in 2007.
3 On a constant currency basis at 31 December 2007 exchange rates net profit 07 1,901 would have increased by 22.8% to US$35.5 million.
Note that the majority of the divisions net profits are earned in the second half of the year due to the 08 1,589 timing of recognition of incentive income.
36 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 of the agreement, the division agreed to share the costs to Review of operations continued complete the central production facility, pipeline to shore and associated infrastructure, which was managed by the Engineering & Construction division.
The Operations Services division commissioned the plant and now operates the facility on behalf of the division.
Energy Developments The Energy Developments divisions portfolio of developed First gas was achieved in June 2008, 15 months after first assets continued to perform well throughout the year and access to the site.
Following completion of the export pipeline, now includes the Chergui gas plant in Tunisia, which was the commercial export of gas commenced in August 2008, with completed and produced first gas during the year.
In the facility reaching and maintaining production near its addition, the division made substantial progress on the Don nameplate capacity of 20 million standard cubic feet per day development, which is scheduled to commence production mmscfd shortly thereafter.
Produced gas is sold to the national during the first half of 2009.
Analysis of the divisions oil & gas company, Socit Tunisienne dElectricit et Gaz STEG, gas reserve entitlements is presented on page 132. under a gas pricing formula fixed by existing law, in which the price of gas is linked to free-on-board Mediterranean FOB Med Developed assets fuel oil prices.
Cendor PM304, Malaysia The division is operator and has a 30% interest in the Production Following commissioning of a new refrigeration unit in early Sharing Contract PSC for the Cendor field in Block PM304, 2009, the plant capacity has been increased by over 20%.
The other partners to the Production result, it is anticipated the division will negotiate a revised Sharing Contract PSC are: Petronas Carigali: PetroVietnam E&P: higher volume gas sales contract with the offtaker.
In addition, and, Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Company KUFPEC.
the division is currently undertaking seismic work to assess The Cendor field averaged production of approximately 14,700 further development of the Chergui field.
barrels per day during the year 2007: 14,300 and achieved production uptime of over 99%.
Assets under development Don Southwest and West Don, UKCS Development of the conceptual design work for the second phase In the UKCS, Petrofac Energy Developments, as operator, and of the Cendor field is progressing, with a final investment decision on behalf of its co-venturers, is managing the development of expected during the second half of 2009.
As part of the the Don fields.
Field Development Programme FDP approval assessment of a second phase, an appraisal drilling programme was received from the Department of Business Enterprise and was recently undertaken, which has yielded promising results.
Regulatory Reform now under the remit of the Department of Energy and Climate Change for the Don Southwest Petrofac Ohanet, Algeria interest 60.0% and West Don Petrofac interest 27.7% fields in The division, in joint venture with BHP Billiton as joint venture May 2008.
A key component of the FDP is the Northern operator, Japan Ohanet Oil & Gas Co, and Woodside Energy Producer floating production facility, which the division secured Algeria, has invested in excess of US$100 million for a 10% share on a tariff basis from Sea Production Limited, a wholly owned in a Risk Service Contract RSC with Sonatrach, Algerias national subsidiary of Northern Offshore Limited, in January 2008. oil company.
The Engineering & Construction division undertook the EPC contract for the gas processing facilities in joint venture The Northern Producer contract has an innovative commercial with ABB Lummus and the Operations Services division was arrangement, such that the division, as operator, will pay a responsible for part of the on-site commissioning works.
First gas variable tariff linked to the oil price, which will range from a for export began flowing in late 2003. minimum of US$2 per barrel if Brent is US$30 or less to a maximum of US$6 per barrel if Brent is US$90 or more.
The The plant continued to perform well in 2008.
Overall production Northern Producer has a capacity of 55,000 barrels of oil per was broadly comparable to the prior year at an average of day and associated gas compression, water injection and approximately 147,000 bpd of oil equivalent 2007: 153,500 bpd of export processing facilities.
A major campaign of fatigue life oil equivalent.
On average, the division earned its share of the enhancement works and equipment refurbishment was monthly liquids production by the 7th day of the month 2007: 8th, undertaken on the Northern Producer, which, together with the 1 reflecting higher average oil & gas prices.
It is expected that the development of the sub-sea infrastructure, was managed with division will earn its defined return by November 2011, at which the assistance of the groups service divisions.
point the contract will terminate.
The drilling programme commenced in August 2008, with the KPC refinery, Kyrgyzstan arrival of the John Shaw semi-submersible drilling rig.
A second The division owns a 50% share in the Kyrgyz Petroleum Company drilling rig, the Stena Spey, is being mobilised in the first quarter KPC which is engaged in the refining of crude oil and the of 2009, to enable the drilling schedule to be maintained despite marketing of oil products from the KPC refinery.
The Operations unfavourable weather conditions.
First oil from the West Don Services division operates the refinery on behalf of the joint venture and Don Southwest fields remains on target with the original partners on a reimbursable basis.
During 2008, the 10,000 bpd schedule, with both expected to start production during the first capacity refinery performed ahead of expectations, with improved half of 2009.
The development remains on budget.
access to feedstock and increased export demand, producing an average of approximately 2,800 bpd 2007: 2,500 bpd of principally The division expects that both the West Don and Don gasoline, diesel and fuel oil.
Southwest fields would generate a positive return at current oil prices.
Chergui field, Tunisia In February 2007, the division completed its acquisition of a 45% The divisions estimate of proven reserves net entitlement for operated interest in the Chergui concession from Entreprise the Don Southwest and West Don developments is 12.2 million Tunisienne dActivits Ptrolires ETAP, the Tunisian national oil barrels 2007: 12.2 million barrels, while its estimate of proven company, which holds the remaining 55% interest.
Under the terms and probable reserves net entitlement is 22.2 million barrels 2007: 23.6 million barrels.
The minor revision is due principally to a lower oil price assumption, following the recent change in economic conditions.
There is further development potential in 1 For example, Brent, a benchmark crude oil, averaged US$97 per barrel for 2008 2007: US$72 per barrel.
Business review 37 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating review 1 2 1.
John Shaw drilling rig, Don field 2.
C endor MOPU, Malaysia the Greater Don area, where the division has interests in Blocks In addition to the prospects noted above, the division reviewed, and 211 17, 211 18 and 211 18c.
continues to review, several upstream and energy infrastructure opportunities.
Permit NT P68, Australia Energy Developments entered into a farm-in arrangement with Results MEO Australia Limited MEO in June 2007.
Under the terms of Divisional revenue increased to US$153.4 million 2007: US$132.8 the farm-in, the division is to fund 25% subject to a cap of the million due to the commencement of exports from the Chergui gas Heron-2 and Heron-3 wells in return for a 10% interest in Permit plant and improved performance at the KPC refinery.
The division also has an option to secure an interest in the Cendor field and the Ohanet gas plant was broadly in line with any LNG or methanol project that forms part of the 2007, despite the impact of higher average oil prices.
terms of the Cendor PSC the division only benefits from 30% of the 1 upside above the base oil price and there was lower cost oil The Heron-2 well was drilled in late 2007 and following recovery in 2008 than in the prior year during which the balance of disappointing results which gave rise to uncertainties the initial cost of the development was recovered.
Under the terms surrounding the commercial outcome, an impairment provision of the Ohanet RSC, the divisions return is capped upon earning its of US$8.7 million was made at 31 December 2007.
The partners share of monthly liquids production.
continue to review the options for the Heron-3 appraisal well and the commerciality of an LNG or methanol project which could Net profit for the year was US$21.9 million 2007: US$33.4 million, depend upon the proving of reserves by other operators in the after: area.
Following a further impairment review of the carrying value a US$8.2 million charge in relation to a currency hedge for capital of the asset, which indicated a wide range of potential expenditure on the Don area development, which, while being an commercial outcomes, a further impairment provision of US$5.0 economic hedge, has been deemed an ineffective cash flow million was made at 31 December 2008.
The carrying value of hedge under International Accounting Standard 39 Financial the asset is now US$4.8 million.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement an impairment provision of US$3.5 million US$5.0 million less a Other tax credit of US$1.5 million against the divisions investment in In April 2008, the division announced in conjunction with the Permit NT P68 Engineering & Construction divisions award of the lump-sum costs of US$4.9 million US$9.8 million less a tax credit of US$4.9 EPC contract for the Ebla gas plant in Syria see page 32 that it million in relation to the unsuccessful Prospero well in the Greater had an opportunity to acquire a 10% equity interest in the Ebla Don area development.
After a thorough review of the opportunity the division decided not to invest in the development.
Adjusting for these non-recurring items, net profit for the year was US$38.5 million 2007: US$30.8 million after adjusting for an impairment provision of US$8.7 million against the divisions Energy Developments EBITDA investment in Permit NT P68 and the recognition of a net tax asset US$ millions of US$11.3 million in relation to the trigger of a ring fence trade allowing UKCS pre-trading expenditure to be recognised as a 06 40.1 deferred tax asset and the recognition of a net tax asset in relation to NT P68 expenditure.
Overall, the net profit contribution from 07 82.8 Cendor and Ohanet was broadly consistent with 2007, while the increase in adjusted net profit was driven by commencement of the 08 89.1 Chergui project and improved performance at the KPC refinery.
Energy Developments net profit US$ millions 06 14.4 07 33.4 08 21.9 1 The base price for 2008 averaged approximately US$37 per barrel.
38 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Extreme weather conditions.
Getting on-site is the first challenge.
Business review 39 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating review Karachaganak, Caspian region As existing easily accessible fields deplete and oil & gas become progressively more difficult to extract, producers have to maintain their focus on reserves in the worlds more hostile and remote locations environments where Petrofac has proven capabilities.
The Caspian region is one of the most Ultimately, Karachaganak could see important oil & gas producing areas a significant number of construction in the world.
It also poses some workers on site.
To meet their needs of our industrys most significant large-scale infrastructure upgrades environmental and logistical challenges.
will have to be undertaken in addition At Karachaganak in western Kazakhstan, to the construction of dedicated close to the Russian border, we are accommodation and a power station.
currently working on our largest front We are also exploring the use of end engineering and design FEED special tent-like heated habitats under project to date.
On a remote site with which work can be carried out while facilities spread over an area the size of protecting the teams from the extreme central London, the Karachaganak weather conditions.
project will be faced with significant challenges including limited infrastructure, sour gas and extremely low temperatures.
40 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Just what was needed on an icy, windswept sea: a trusted friend.
Business review 41 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating review Northern Producer, UK North Sea At Petrofac, we have a track record of bringing unconventional thinking to projects in order to overcome logistical and technical challenges in the harshest environments.
The innovative decision to use the The West Don and Don Southwest fields Northern Producer floating production are being developed by Petrofac in facility, rather than a host platform, on partnership with Valiant Petroleum, the Don development in the UK North First Oil, Stratic Energy and Nippon Oil.
Sea has reduced the amount of offshore Through our Facilities Management work involved in the project, saving business, we were awarded a Duty costs and improving safety.
Previously Holder contract to provide turnkey employed on Talismans Galley field, the operations services for the Northern Northern Producer was refurbished and Producer by the vessels owner, Sea upgraded for the Don development and Production Limited.
First oil is successfully moored in position towards anticipated during the first half of 2009. the end of 2008, following a 48 hour journey to the field from the Cromarty Firth.
The refurbishment involved vessel life extension, maintenance upgrades and Don-specific enhancements.
42 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Fast track execution in a remote location.
Business review 43 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating review Ebla gas plant, Syria We are committed to ensuring that we have trained people able to work safely at all times even when we are working to the most demanding timescales.
At the Ebla gas treatment plant in Syria, 22 months from the award of the our team is working with local contract, we were also tasked with construction contractors to deliver major procurement and logistics issues.
a complex project to a demanding Key items of equipment were airproduction schedule.
There is no freighted, with vendors incentivised and compromise in safety despite a remote assisted to streamline and speed the mountainous location and temperatures delivery process.
that range from -14C at night to 45C at midday.
Ebla is currently on schedule, with first gas anticipated in 2010.
At the time of Under the guidance of our on-site team publication, the team had worked more and supported by additional Petrofac than 2.5 million man-hours without a people in Sharjah and Mumbai, the Lost Time Incident.
contractor workforce of around 1,100 has undertaken extensive training in HSSE and job-specific skills.
With our customer seeking production within
