Business review continued Operational review We are working closely with our licensees and managers to ensure that we respond to changing consumer demands.
Overview I am pleased to report a robust set of results for Punch covering the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2008.
We have achieved a profit before tax and exceptional items of 262 million, and generated strong cash flows with a free cash inflow before investment of 298 million.
Giles Thorley Our balance sheet remains strong and we have been taking steps Chief Executive to increase flexibility in order to equip ourselves better to cope with the more challenging trading environment.
Since 18 August 2007 243 million 4.9% of the Groups debt has been repaid from operating cash flows and included within this the repayment and cancellation of 68 million of the Convertible Bond, which represents 24% of the issue, due to be redeemed in December 2010.
As at 3 November 2008 the Group maintains c. 115 million of freehold and long leasehold pubs outside of the securitisation structures and has renewed and extended a 50 million bank facility to October 2010, this facility is currently undrawn.
As announced in September, the Board considers it prudent to retain cash and further strengthen the balance sheet ahead of returning cash to shareholders through distributions.
Consequently and as previously announced, the Board does not intend to propose a final dividend for the year ended 23 August 2008.
However, the Board will continue to review its distribution policy and the use of cash against the objective of maximising long term shareholder value.
These results demonstrate the ongoing resilience of our business model in the changing market environment.
The successful delivery of these results is again testament to the hard work and commitment of everyone connected with Punch.
I would particularly like to thank our pub licensees and managers and all of our staff and colleagues for their support during the year.
Cogniscent of the challenges facing some of our licensees over the shorter term, we remain committed to building long term business partnerships with our lessees.
As such, we will continue to advise and support them in every way available to us through what remain testing trading conditions for the industry as a whole.
The market Since last autumn, we have seen a slowdown in consumer spending which has been detrimentally impacted by the turmoil in the banking sector, a rise in the cost of food and fuel, and higher interest and borrowing rates.
Along with the rest of the industry, we have felt the effects of this slowdown which has coincided with changing consumer trends following the first full year of trade under the smoking ban in England and Wales.
com Passionate about our pubs continually enhancing the quality of our customers environment within each pub.
Passionate about our people attracting the best people to run our pubs and constantly striving to deliver high standards of customer experience.
Passionate about service delivering industry-leading training and support to our pubs to ensure we provide the best customer service.
Whilst we continue to be optimistic about the longer term Following a strong first quarter to the year in which the business prospects for Punch and for the industry as a whole, we remain continued in like-for-like growth, trading in the following three cautious about the short term recessionary impact of an expected quarters was weaker with like-for-like contribution down 5.1%, rise in unemployment and a worsening consumer slowdown.
resulting in a full year like-for-like contribution down 3.4%.
Estate strategy The smoking ban and weaker consumer environment has impacted The continued investment in our estate, in partnership with our both the level of footfall and spend per visit, resulting in a reduction licensees, has ensured that our pubs are best placed to trade in beer volumes as seen across the sector.
Our experience here is through the current difficult climate and are ready to benefit when broadly in line with data provided by the British Beer and Pub the economy begins to recover.
We are committed to investing Association BBPA.
wisely to ensure an attractive return and have spent 133 million on enhancing over 1,000 pubs across the estate during the year.
Despite tougher trading conditions, the majority of our licensees are performing well, with 89% of our pubs being let on substantive During the past two years we have actively churned the estate agreements.
The number of closed pubs continues to be relatively through the acquisition of high quality pubs and the disposal small, representing c. 3% of the estate as at the year end.
Average of less sustainable less profitable pubs.
This has resulted in licensee profitability, whilst slightly down on the half year position, Punch developing what is today one of the most diversified, remained in line with that of last year.
The leased model provides highest quality pub estates in the country.
attractive returns for licensees, with low initial capital outlay, accommodation and immediate business support.
We estimate During the year under review, Punch acquired 20 pubs for that the average income for a Punch licensee operating on a 24 million and disposed of 39 individual pubs together with substantive lease agreement is c. 70% above that of the average other assets for 35 million, leaving a year end estate of 8,424 full-time adult worker earnings.
pubs comprising 7,560 leased and tenanted pubs and 864 managed.
Our strategy of churning the estate to improve the quality will Operational activity continues to be high.
During the course of the continue and as part of a detailed estate review we have identified year there were 485 assignments at an average premium of 71,000, c. 500 leased and tenanted pubs which generated a profit of 985 licensees undertook investment schemes with Punch and we c. 10 million during the year, that are unlikely to generate long received over 5,000 applications and let 852 pubs in the year.
At term sustainable growth and are likely to be sold or converted the year end, we have 944 registered applicants on our database for alternative use within the next few years.
of prospective licensees wanting to take on a Punch pub, a similar level to 2007.
We have also continued to see rising rental levels Leased estate at both rent review and lease renewal with a 4% average uplift During these challenging times, the strength of the leased and on rent review of which only 9% of reviews resulted in a rent tenanted model has continued to prove its resilience and defensive reduction and a 13% average uplift on lease renewal.
characteristics by delivering a robust performance.
We work in close partnership with our licensees, supporting them in every way We are, however, seeing a slow down in the overall rate of rental to maximise the business opportunities open to them.
Punchs high growth due to a relatively small number of pubs that have been quality pub estate continues to attract talented entrepreneurs in significantly impacted by the smoking ban and the economic the sector.
We offer industry-leading support to our licensees and conditions.
Like-for-like rental growth has slowed to 2.1% in the remain confident that both our pubs and our licensees are as well year, compared with a growth of 4.2% in 2007. equipped as they can be to weather the current economic downturn.
We are pleased with the improvement in the estate quality during Despite the much publicised market challenges, it is extremely the year, however we are very much aware of the challenges that pleasing to see that we have again been able to improve the our licensees are facing in the short term.
As a consequence we quality of the leased estate with average EBITDA per pub up 4% have increased the level of support to licensees, where appropriate, to 64,000.
This represents a 23% improvement in the average and remain committed to providing industry leading support quality of the estate over the last four years since the acquisition through a number of educational and financial initiatives.
of the Pubmaster business in 2003.
09 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review continued Operational review continued We are continuing Graham Earl Dennett, The Rams Head, Grappenall In partnership with Punch, Graham to invest wisely in invested nearly 700,000 extending and refurbishing the Rams Head.
His mission throughout the refurbishment was to retain the atmosphere and unique our key concepts and character of this listed pub.
In an industry first, Graham and Punch installed a Combined Heat and Power unit CHP allowing the pub to generate its own heat with our licensees.
and electricity and at times of low usage, export its energy back to the National Grid.
During the year to 23 August 2008, the level of rent and non The terms of our supplier contracts and tight cost control have standard discount concessions amounted to 8 million.
The level ensured that the business has not been dramatically impacted of concessions as at 23 August 2008 had increased to 14 million by the rising cost of food and fuel.
In addition, plans to improve of which 6 million was provided in the way of rent concessions.
our energy efficiency and the forward purchasing of gas and Financial support through the provision of temporary rent concessions electricity will help combat rising utility costs.
Despite these or additional discounts is reviewed on a case by case basis and is mitigating actions, we still expect above inflation cost increases dependent upon the licensee working with Punch to identify and of c. 8 million in the next financial year.
implement a business plan that will advance the business, including for example, improved retail standards, food offer development There have been a number of changes in the management team and a more active marketing and promotional plan.
during the course of the year and the business has now been refocused into regional geographies rather than operational We are committed to helping our licensees build better businesses concept.
This will allow the business to react faster to market in the long term and have the most comprehensive training change in different parts of the country and deliver improved and support package in the industry.
During the course of the customer offers, in a much more efficient and timely manner.
year we held almost 9,000 licensee training days and provided catering support for 1,200 licensees to introduce a new food offer The economic environment has put disposable incomes under or help further develop their existing food offer.
By leveraging terms pressure and consumers are understandably seeking better value available to the Group from the managed side of the business for money.
Our existing concepts are well positioned to provide our we have also been delivering improved margins for our licensees.
customers with exceptional value and great service.
Our Two for For example, our Big Orange Food Book and our Connect drinks One concept, for example, has always offered families a great value brochure enable licensees to access cost effective deals so they, and entertainment experience.
Elsewhere in the estate, we have too, are able to deliver better value to their customers.
re-positioned menus and pricing and provided promotional offers to deliver greater value across the portfolio.
Managed estate As in the leased estate, a stronger first quarter gave way to weaker Matthew Clark joint venture trading in the following three quarters.
However, trading in the Matthew Clark, the 50% joint venture with Constellation Brands, fourth quarter did show signs of improvement as the business Inc. continues to perform satisfactorily in a very competitive traded through the first full year of the smoking ban in England market, providing a post-tax contribution to the Punch Group and Wales, with a like-for-like sales decline of 2.2% compared of 3 million during the year.
Whilst being relatively small compared to a full year like-for-like sales decline of 3.3%.
to the rest of the Group on a profitability basis, Matthew Clark has significant scale in its marketplace as the largest independent drinks Performance has been impacted by the smoking ban and the wholesaler and distributor to the UK leisure and hospitality industry, weaker consumer environment resulting in reduced drinks volumes, with gross turnover in excess of 500 million and c. 20,000 customers.
and this has had an adverse gross margin impact.
Like-for-like food sales have been stable but this masks a slowing performance Matthew Clark has a strong strategic fit with the Punch Group, within the Chef & Brewer premium food concept.
These pubs and has enabled Punch licensees to benefit from an enhanced have good locations and we have recently taken action to improve range of goods and services by leveraging Matthew Clarks performance through a fully-revamped menu and enhanced market leading wines and spirits expertise.
Financial As a consequence of the managed to leased conversion Full year earnings amounted to 214 million after tax and before programme in 2007, we have improved the quality of the exceptional items.
After exceptional items the Group recorded estate.
As a result the decline in average EBITDA per pub has a loss of 65 million.
Punch continues to deliver strong levels been limited to 4%.
of cash generation with free cash flow before investing activities of 298 million, and after investing activities of 173 million.
com Dan Robinson, Regional Operations Director London Dan joined the industry in 1992 whilst at college and worked his way up to Assistant Manager.
He completed the Graduate Scheme with Allied Domecq and looked after Wacky Warehouses 133m in the Midlands.
Amount spent on enhancing His first role at Spirit was Regional Business Manager for local our estate during the year.
pubs and then for John Barras.
Dan completed the Spirit Potential Programme for middle managers with the potential to progress to a senior level which involved having an external mentor for a year.
He was appointed as Operations Director for central London in 2006 and most recently to Regional Operations Director for London.
Total exceptional items amounted to a charge of 278 million, Since the financial year end we have continued to review our the principal items being 295 million of impairment charges, debt levels and taken the opportunity presented by the market to a 31 million charge for the mark-to-market of certain interest re-purchase and cancel several tranches of our debt at substantial rate swaps and 14 million for reorganisation costs.
The tax effect discounts to the nominal value.
During October 2008 we re-purchased of these items together with finalising a number of prior year 77 million of Punch A debt at a cost of 73 million, 25 million tax matters with HMRC gave rise to an exceptional tax credit of of Punch B debt at a cost of 20 million and 68 million accreted 64 million.
Only the 11 million of reorganisation costs net of tax value of Convertible Bonds at a cost of 50 million.
The repurchase and a 9 million tax credit in respect of prior year tax matters are of the Punch A debt will reduce the level of debt service charge in of a cash nature.
All of the other exceptional charges are of a 2009 for this securitisation by 22 million, resulting in a substantial non-cash nature.
increase in the headroom against the restricted payment test.
In addition, we have secured a renewal of our existing undrawn RCF The effective pre-exceptional tax charge of 19% 2007: 20% which was due to expire in December 2008, with a revised RCF remains below the standard rate of UK corporation tax due to now expiring in October 2010, on broadly similar terms.
indexation of acquired asset base costs.
Cash tax in the year amounted to a net receipt of 21 million 2007: 19 million We have also ensured that the strength of our balance sheet is payment following the finalisation of prior tax matters with HMRC.
underpinned by conservative asset valuations.
The carrying value of pub assets shown in the accounts is based on historic or Since flotation, we have maintained an appropriate debt structure deemed cost.
Each year we conduct an impairment review, and funded almost entirely by long term mortgage finance, secured given the exceptional circumstances in the economy, we have on our sizeable freehold property portfolio.
This remains the case recognised a pub impairment charge of 295 million before tax.
today with 4.5 billion of long term debt secured on over 8,000 The charge reflects the reduced level of profitability in the managed pub properties.
The debt fully repays over terms extending to 27 business, together with the reduction in profitability within the years and is all effectively at fixed rates of interest.
The only debt leased business for those pubs that have been significantly we have other than this is a Convertible Bond due for repayment impacted by the current market conditions.
in December 2010 and a 50 million undrawn revolving credit facility RCF which expires in October 2010.
Accounting standards requires that where the value-in-use of individual pubs falls below their carrying value, then this reduction As with all debt finance, there are covenants and performance is charged to the income statement.
Uplifts in value are not tests.
In these exceptionally difficult market conditions, we have reflected in the financial statements, unless and to the extent maintained significant headroom in the key financial 4-quarter that they reverse a previous impairment charge.
DSCR Debt Service Cover Ratio covenant test with headroom of 26%, 42% and 50% for the Punch A, Punch B and Spirit As in prior years, we have undertaken an external valuation of the securitisations respectively.
The Punch A and Punch B securitisations licensed pub estate which amounts to some 6.5 billion which, met their Restricted Payment Condition RPC tests throughout the whilst representing a reduction to that of the prior year, continues year resulting in 137 million of cash being available to upstream to exceed the current book value by more than 100 million and from the securitisations.
The cash held in the Spirit securitisation, provides a current property valuation of 2.0 billion over net debt.
following Spirit falling below the RPC test level at the end of the year, was subsequently utilised through acquiring 50 million Financial strategy of pubs from the Punch A securitisation.
Our overriding objective is to continue to maximise the long term shareholder value of the Group.
We have stable long term amortising debt and no near term requirement for funding.
We have taken additional prudent steps As previously announced, clearance has been received from in utilising cash to reduce our level of debt, whilst maintaining HMRC for a structure which would allow Punch to elect to a REIT investment in our pubs.
The nominal value of year end net debt Real Estate Investment Trust regime whilst retaining all existing fell to 4.5 billion 2007: 4.7 billion representing a multiple of businesses.
However, in the current environment our main priorities 7.3x 2007: 7.0x our reported pre-exceptional EBITDA.
Interest are to maintain the strength of our balance sheet and to continue cover was maintained at 2.0x EBITDA in the year.
to invest in our business.
11 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Financial statements Governance Business review Business review continued Operational review continued We continue to ensure that we have a management team of the highest calibre.
Our current business structure, which incorporates the use of Since the year end, and to the date of this report, sales stable long term amortising debt, has continued to demonstrate its comparatives in the managed business have continued robustness during a period when financial markets have tightened.
broadly in line with that experienced for the 2008 financial As the Group has no near term requirement for funding, the Board year.
Operating margins continue to be impacted by a growing believes that the main priority for the use of cash is to prepare the proportion of sales coming from food and through regulatory, business through continued investment in our pubs.
However, we food and energy cost increases.
also remain focused on the repayment of the Groups Convertible Bond due in December 2010.
A number of measures have already In the leased business, the level of decline in drinks volumes been implemented to ensure the certainty of repayment, including has continued in line with that experienced for the second half the purchase and cancellation of 24% of this Bond two years early, of the 2008 financial year.
Whilst we continue to see good levels creating significant savings of 21 million.
of activity in the leased business, the impact of increased levels of licensee support through rent concessions and non-standard Management changes discounts will further impact results.
Punch continues to ensure that we have a management team of the highest calibre to drive the continued success of the business.
Given the current difficult trading environment, we consider it prudent to base management actions on the assumption that On 7 July 2008 Mike Tye was appointed to the Board as Managing there will be no improvement in runrate levels of performance in Director of Spirit.
Mike has nearly 20 years experience in the leisure the near term.
Despite the difficult trading conditions we have industry, notably with Whitbread, Aramark and Forte.
He has exited the year with significant headroom in the key financial considerable experience in the pub and pub restaurant markets, covenant tests.
as well as the casual dining sector.
The steps that we have already taken with regards to cash More recently, Roger Whiteside joined the Group and was management and the effective structuring of our balance sheet appointed to the Board on 3 November 2008 as Managing Director has allowed us to repurchase 24% of the Convertible Bond ahead of the leased business.
Roger has nearly 30 years experience of schedule.
This leaves us in a strong position to ensure future in retail, notably with Marks & Spencer, Ocado and Thresher.
cash flows are available to the Group, to increase the certainty of repayment of the remainder of the Convertible Bond in Mike and Roger replace Andrew Knight, Managing Director of Spirit December 2010. and Deborah Kemp, Managing Director of the leased business respectively.
The Board would like to express its gratitude to both Although not immune to the weakening UK consumer Andrew and Deborah for their exceptional service to the Group, environment, Punch does benefit from an extremely high quality, having been instrumental in managing the business through well diversified estate leaving it in a strong position to meet the significant change programmes during their extensive tenures with current market challenges.
Our infrastructure enables us to operate the Group and wishes them every success in their future careers.
our pubs using the optimal business model, be it leased or managed.
We remain optimistic about the longer term prospects Current trading and outlook given the enhanced quality of the estate, positive demographic Trading conditions into September and October have, as expected, indicators, favourable longer term disposable income and spending remained extremely challenging.
The deteriorating economic trends and the expected reduction in the total number of licensed outlook for the UK consumer makes forecasting difficult: premises across the industry.
consequently we remain cautious over trading prospects for the coming financial year.
