The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 06 Chief Executives review of operations At the beginning of 2008 we were pro t before tax which increased by concerned that a less favourable outlook 12.5% to 49m and adjusted earnings for the UK economy combined with per share which increased by 14% tightening conditions for the consumer to 16.7p.
would present signi cant challenges for our sector during the year ahead.
At that TRG rationale time in ationary headwinds were also Our core objective continues to be building and, although we had mitigated growth in shareholder value and our the risk of this via xed or capped price strategy to achieve this is to build a contracts in respect of approximately one business capable of delivering long-term, third of our input costs, those too were sustainable and growing cash ows.
anticipated to make pro t progress more I am pleased to report that, once again, dif cult to achieve.
In addition, many we have successfully converted our of the other operators in our sector had, pro ts into cash at a very healthy rate.
since the end of 2007, adopted a tactic TRGs business model enables the of deep discounting in order to stem Group to grow in a predominantly organic declining sales.
Against what looked and highly value-accretive way, funded set to become a more challenging and from internally generated funds.
Our potentially divergent marketplace we touchstones are cash ow and return Andrew Page, Chief Executive framed our strategy and tactics accordingly on investment.
and I am pleased to report that this has 2008 was another enabled TRG to enjoy another year of TRGs primary focus is on edge of town, good progress.
out of town, rural, semi-rural and year of good progress, airport locations.
These locations have building on the strong Against the well-documented challenging signi cant barriers to entry, offer good economic backdrop, both of our divisions growth prospects and enable the Group performance of the performed well during the year delivering to generate consistently high returns on growth in both revenues and pro t. investment.
We occupy leading market previous year.
Margins too held up well with a 10 basis positions in each of these segments point increase in the EBITDA margin to and are well placed to continue to grow 18.6% 2007: 18.5% and a 10 basis our business.
point decline in operating pro t margin to 13.0% 2007: 13.1%.
Our like-for-like Capex and TRG opening programme sales also grew by 1.5%, which taken Our philosophy regarding capital against increases of 5.0% and 5.5% in expenditure remains consistent that is, the two preceding years represents very we focus on cash generation and return solid progress.
As a result, the Group on invested capital at rates ahead of again achieved a record level of adjusted TRGs weighted average cost of capital.
Consistently strong returns Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 07 We will continue to apply the same high Chiquito 61 units Leisure level of analytical rigour, commercial Chiquito enjoyed another year of good analysis, experience and risk adjustment progress with increases in revenues, 2008 2007 2006 to each capital project that we undertake.
EBITDA and operating pro t. EBITDA This approach has served TRG well over Total and pro t margins were maintained at the revenue 329.0m 285.2m 236.3m the last seven years and we do not intend levels achieved in 2007.
During the to deviate from it.
This means that year we opened eight new Chiquito Operating projects that have been postponed or restaurants these are trading well and pro t 69.0m 61.6m 50.7m delayed by the developers will not be are set to deliver good returns.
During substituted with unduly risky and or less 2009 we expect to open between two Operating attractive projects.
Rather, we will retain margin 21.0% 21.6% 21.5% and four new Chiquito restaurants.
Again, our cash until such time as either the we have seen strong performances from original projects reappear or other equally Frankie & Bennys 179 units our co-located restaurants and we plan attractive opportunities become available.
Frankie & Bennys performed well during to continue to pursue dual roll-out In the meantime, our surplus cash ow 2008 with turnover, EBITDA and opportunities.
will be applied towards reducing debt.
Whilst the EBITDA margin was maintained there Garfunkels 22 units Results was a very small decline in the operating This year the Garfunkels brand celebrates All of our key trading metrics performed margin.
During the year we opened 21 its 30th anniversary and it remains well during 2008: new restaurants of which 13 were on a strong business, predominantly located Building on the 5% and 5.5% non-cinema sites.
The results from the in central London, delivering high margins increases in like-for-like sales in 2006 new openings have been excellent and and excellent returns on invested capital.
and 2007, we grew this metric by they are set to deliver strong returns.
In During 2008 Garfunkels performed 1.5% in 2008.
During the year we sold 2009 we had intended to open a similar superbly and, although some restaurant more than 33 million meals: number of new restaurants to 2008 but closures due to the expiry of leases Revenue increased by 14% to 417m: we have, over the past six months, had meant that turnover reduced, the overall Adjusted EBITDA increased by 14% to a rising number of projects postponed or pro t increased by 15%.
Margins also 77.5m and adjusted operating pro t cancelled by the developers.
We believe improved with signi cant increases in increased by 13% to 54.2m: and that this re ects two key factors rstly a both EBITDA and operating pro t Group margins EBITDA and operating lack of bank finance available to property margins.
During 2009 we expect to open pro t were held at last years levels companies and secondly a deteriorating a new Garfunkels in Tottenham Court a very satisfactory performance retail sector making it more dif cult for Road on a redeveloped site upon which against a changing business mix, landlords to secure tenants on projects a very successful Garfunkels previously in ationary cost pressures and the 290 with a retail component.
basis point increase in operating pro t of March 2009, we now anticipate margins achieved since the beginning opening between 8 and 12 new Frankie of 2005.
& Bennys during the forthcoming year.
EBITDA Pro t before tax 77.5m 48.9m 2007 67.8m 2007 43.5m 2006 55.6m 2006 35.0m 2005 50.0m 2005 29.5m The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 08 Chief Executives review of operations continued Pub Restaurants 44 units business in the future.
Accordingly we Concessions Overall our Pub Restaurant business have, for the time being, decided to performed steadily during 2008.
Brunning keep our powder dry in the expectation 2008 2007 2006 & Price, which we acquired in October that over the next couple of years we will 2007, delivered a superb performance have the opportunity to use our resources Total revenue 87.3m 81.2m 72.5m with growth in like-for-like sales, revenues to greater effect.
Longer-term we believe and pro ts.
Blubeckers, however, found that this business has the potential to Operating the going tougher and this pattern grow signi cantly.
pro t 12.7m 12.5m 11.1m persisted throughout the year.
This was due, in part, to its geographical Operating concentration in the South East and also margin 14.6% 15.4% 15.3% to its price point which, combined with a more formal style of offering, means Despite a number of factors impacting that it has less everyday appeal.
Where adversely upon our Concessions division feasible, during 2009 we will be aligning during 2008, the business recorded the Blubeckers style of offering more a very creditable set of results.
Turnover closely to the less formal style of and pro ts both increased although, Brunning & Price as we believe that this as previously anticipated, pro t margins will afford greater operational exibility came under pressure slipping by 80 basis and will also appeal to a wider potential points to 14.6%.
2008 was a challenging year for several At the start of 2008 we had anticipated reasons including large scale changes opening between 5-10 new pub at Heathrow airport including the restaurants.
In fact, we opened just two.
opening of the new Terminal 5 and The main reason behind our decision major redevelopment at Gatwick South.
to scale back the openings in 2008 was Since the fourth quarter of 2008 we due to our assessment, as we moved have experienced a decline in passenger through the first half of the year, that the numbers pax at many of our airport pub sector was likely to come under locations and this has also impacted our more pressure over the next year or so.
Notwithstanding Whilst this pressure may lead to further these factors, our team has responded competitive discounting and pricing magni cently to ensure that the adverse pressure in the near term it will, we revenue impact resulting from both believe, yield some potentially lucrative airport disruptions and pax declines was opportunities to grow our Pub Restaurant Ef cient model for value creation Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 09 minimised, and that operational Non-core and pro ts and, at the same time, ef ciencies were secured.
The result was During the year non-core losses maintain margins we are determined like-for-like sales growth in every quarter decreased by 0.6m and we will continue to continue this.
There are a number of and an increase in pro ts over the year.
to take steps to minimise these non-core factors that have enabled TRG to losses.
These Looking forward into 2009, we are include our distinct market positioning cautious about the outlook for airports.
Market dynamics and economic in segments with lower supply-side risk, A global recession with the prospect of backdrop our price point and avoiding the deep declining GDP is likely to impact air travel Eating out has become an increasingly discounting that has pervaded large parts adversely and thus pax for much, if not popular pastime for large parts of the UK of the market, offerings which have wide all, of 2009.
Beyond this it is dif cult to population in recent years with growth appeal to most socio-economic groups make a call but we do know from past trending at levels ahead of GDP growth and a commitment to delivering great experience that rstly, TRG has an and we remain con dent that the hospitality to our customers.
outstanding track record of positively prospects for our market are positive.
outperforming pax changes and Socio-economic factors such as an There is no doubt that we currently face secondly, the medium and longer term ageing population, more females in work the most dif cult economic backdrop trends for this sector are strong with pax and levels of disposable income experienced for at least two generations.
growth forecast to trend ahead of GDP signi cantly higher than in previous The issues are many and complex.
The growth and with a growing number of generations augur well for our industry.
rapidity with which the global economy passengers ying with low cost airlines.
Eating out, particularly at our popular has deteriorated over the past twelve 2009 is likely to be a year where we price points 10-16 spend per head, months has been astonishing.
Twelve focus on continuing to outperform pax is a relatively small ticket item for most months ago there was great concern and to carefully control our costs.
Our people and for many it has become a about global in ation and this was being Concessions business is in good shape, habitual part of their lives and something particularly felt in our sector.
Today the it is the pre-eminent operator in UK that they are reluctant to give up.
concerns have moved on to worries of airports, has an outstanding team of worldwide fide ation, stretched public experienced staff and continues to Nevertheless, eating out represents, to and private sector nances, rising generate good returns.
a signi cant degree, discretionary spend unemployment and a global recession.
and as such can be exed according Furthermore, a lack of liquidity in the Additionally, the average length of to consumers disposable income and banking system is making life dif cult for our airport concessions has increased con dence.
It would therefore be nave both corporates and consumers.
This signi cantly over the past year.
This to assume that our business is has become serious as it adds a further should leave TRG well placed in the impervious to the recessionary forces fide ationary and negative dimension event of changes in individual airport and deteriorating economic backdrop to the slowdown.
The reaction of most ownership.
To date, TRG governments and central authorities has demonstrated a level of resilience has been to launch initiatives to re ate and popularity with diners that has economies and the UK has been at the enabled it to continue to grow revenues forefront of many of these.
Both scal Operating pro t margin Dividend cover 13.0% 2.16 2007 13.1% 2007 2.02 2006 12.5% 2006 1.92 2005 11.1% 2005 1.91 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 10 Chief Executives review of operations continued and monetary stimuli have been further deterioration in the outlook for the our sector.
The reasons for this are harnessed, potentially including the UK economy in 2009. two-fold: rstly, some operators will relatively untried technique of quantitative withdraw or signi cantly downscale their easing.
Interest rates are now at the It is our intention to work hard to sustain plans and secondly, it is likely, for some lowest level on record and may yet go those positive factors that have, to date, time, to deter new entrants.
Meanwhile unemployment levels enabled TRG to withstand the these factors should act as a brake on have risen.
deteriorating situation and grow sales restaurant supply and the positive impact and pro t. We will also re-enforce our of this is likely to be felt for some time.
The two key macro-economic drivers for emphasis on tight cost control and Looking forward, companies with sound consumer spend which tend to in uence judicious, value-accretive, expansion.
nances and strong market positions our marketplace are interest rates and TRG plans to continue to focus on those will emerge from this recession in employment levels.
The latter is likely to areas of business that it knows well and a signi cantly enhanced position.
TRG act as a drag for some time whilst a where it has expertise.
Having eschewed is well placed to strengthen its position reduction in the former has yet to feed the trend in recent years to replace within its two chosen business segments through into increasing consumer spend permanent capital with debt we are and to continue its pro table whilst uncertainty over job security, and well-placed to continue our expansion development.
a desire to pay down household debt through new openings and should and rebuild household savings, persists.
suitable new site opportunities arise TRG Finally, I would like to record my thanks Nevertheless the signi cant reduction should be well-positioned to exploit and appreciation to the TRG team.
in interest rates combined with lower them.
As always our touchstones will be We asked a great deal of our people in in ation should mean that disposable cash ow and return on investment.
2008 and they responded magni cently.
incomes increase and in due course Without their unstinting efforts and this will lead to an increase in Future prospects professionalism we would not have been consumer spend.
Against a backdrop of further UK able to make such good progress.
economic deterioration we have started Our focus is now directed to 2009 and GDP changes have moved into negative the year reasonably well with like-for-like beyond and we are again looking to territory and the outlook for 2009 is for a sales for the first nine weeks 2.5% below our staff to re-double their efforts.
This represents a good con dent that they will do so.
short-term it looks highly likely that things improvement on the trends experienced may become more dif cult.
Some in the final two months of 2008.
Andrew Page commentators have suggested that the Chief Executive Of cer UK will emerge from the recession in the Whilst the short-term outlook for the 4 March 2009 second half of 2009 and that there will be UK economy and consumer-facing a resumption of growth in 2010.
We businesses is trickier and may make life Results marked as adjusted are stated believe that it is too early, and that there dif cult for many companies, we believe excluding non-trading items refer to note 2 is still too much uncertainty, to make that that beyond the short-term it is likely to call.
We have factored into our planning a have a cathartic and positive effect upon Strong market positions
