Operations review In Colombia, the brand portfolio upgrade Premium volumes and share have continued with the launch of Redds in the improved with the relaunch of Cusquea Latin America premium segment and the relaunches of in the premium segment, which ended Latin Latin Aguila and Aguila Light in the mainstream the year at 8% market share, partially America America Financial summary 2008 2007 % segment.
Our Pony Malta brand was offsetting the mix impact of the growth 1 Group revenue also relaunched with a new design and of the economy segment including US$m 5,251 4,392 20 a new 350ml PET container.
Revenue per hectolitre 2 EBITA US$m 1,071 915 17 lager volumes grew by over 60% in the has improved 1% on a constant currency EBITA margin % 20.4 20.9 year, largely due to the continued strong basis.
Our overall market share ended Sales volumes performance of Club Colombia.
The new the fourth quarter at 84% and the beer hl 000 : 500ml returnable bottle for Aguila and market has gained share of alcohol and Lager 36,846 34,948 5 various PET packs for Pony Malta further now stands at 51%.
The operation Soft drinks 18,484 19,474 5 helped to modernise and widen the appeal continues to enhance its brand portfolio Soft drinks of the product range.
and invest for future demand with capacity organic 18,484 18,564 0 and quality upgrades.
The renovation Trading conditions softened in the of containers and the distribution fleet is 1 second half, as consumer credit interest Including share of associates, US$12 million now largely complete and the programme 2007: US$19 million.
rates continued to rise and inflationary of trade marketing enhancements is 2 In 2008 before exceptional items of US$61 million 2007: cost pressures resulted in retail price US$64 million being restructuring costs in Latin America, being rolled out.
partially offset by the net profit on the sale of soft drink and increases.
Nevertheless revenue per juice businesses in Costa Rica and Colombia respectively.
hectolitre improved by 4% on a constant Our Ecuador operations delivered a currency basis with revenue management commendable performance despite lower Key focus areas and a focus on price compliance assisting economic growth, political uncertainty Continue to raise the appeal price and mix improvements.
and torrential rains in the fourth quarter.
of the beer category The operation has focused on securing Lager growth rates slowed in the second Build well differentiated brand channel advocacy by the installation of half of the year, ending up 4% for the full portfolios with national identities over 5,000 coolers and our market year.
However, our share of the alcohol mapping to identify further opportunities Optimise and extend distribution market increased by 190 basis points for growth is complete.
The change in network and sales reach to 64.7%, gaining share mostly from our route-to-market has commenced Embed organisation changes local spirits.
with positive reception in the areas and performance management Further gains were made in operating affected.
Lager volume growth of over Continue the development efficiencies and reducing overhead costs, 5% was driven by our flagship brand of regional operating in order to assist in offsetting rising input Pilsner, following its relaunch in October support platforms costs.
The majority of the structural 2007, and the implementation of national changes to the route-to-market and the pricing in the same month.
The premium product quality investments have now portfolio performed well led by the been implemented, while trade marketing renovation of the Club brand, which has In Latin America, execution of our capability has been enhanced, establishing been successfully repositioned in the strategy to renovate the beer category a solid platform for future growth.
premium segment, whilst maintaining has continued and has delivered underlying previous volumes.
Beers share of alcohol performance in line with our expectations remained in line with the prior year at 41% while laying a sound foundation for future and our lager market share improved by growth.
In the year, lager volumes ended 80 basis points on a full year basis to 96%, 5% up on the prior year despite high 6% despite aggressive pricing campaigns from comparative volume growth, particularly EBITA growth on an organic our main competitor.
Positive brand and in the second half.
Reported EBITA constant currency basis pack mix and increased prices have performance benefited from strong local boosted revenue.
currencies, particularly the Colombian peso which strengthened by 15% against the The new Valle brewery was commissioned In Honduras lager volume growth of 4% US dollar on a full year average basis.
in March 2008, with an initial annual capacity was fuelled by 10% growth in premium There have been significant fixed cost of 3.2 million hl, which will bring supply and segment volumes, led by our brands Barena productivity improvements across the demand into better balance in the western and Port Royal.
Reported EBITA margin was region.
Further capacity investment will be and our beer outlet and cooler expansion down on prior year due to rising raw required at the Barranquilla brewery and at programmes contributed positively to material input costs and a 40 basis point maltings plants in the coming year.
Revenue management was negative impact as a result of changes to the year the juice business in Colombia supported by premium volumes growing to the basis of recovering distribution costs.
Renewed focus On an organic constant currency basis, is now being placed on affordability and the In Peru economic conditions have been EBITA growth was 6%, while revenue per attractiveness of our mainstream brands.
favourable with annual GDP growth of hectolitre increased by 4% on a like for like Soft drinks reported growth of 9%, with nearly 9%.
Lager volumes were up 8% on basis.
Significant capital investment was our Tropical brand achieving growth the prior year despite major disruptions to incurred to increase capacity, modernise of 23%, following a renewed imaging distribution due to mudslides and a severe production and logistics assets, upgrade campaign.
Our market share of soft earthquake.
The market has become returnable containers and improve drinks improved by 4% to 55% through increasingly competitive with the entry product quality.
improved sales execution activities, despite of a second competitor in the economy continuing competition in the soft drink segment.
Our Pilsen Trujillo brand has market and the shift in mix to family one been successfully repositioned nationally way packs.
to combat low priced competition.
24 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
