Operational review continued Following completion of the Phu Kheng-1 well, the Development rig will move to drill the Si That-3 appraisal well in Block L15 43.
This well will appraise a gas bearing structure analogous in form to the Sinphuhorm field with the potential to contain up to 1 Tcf of Within the Bualuang production licence a number Salamander is involved in all recoverable reserves.
of exploration prospects have been identified with the areas of hydrocarbon extraction, potential to add readily accessible reserves to the The Group was awarded the operated from exploration, through drilling Bualuang development project.
The Bualuang field exploration blocks L26 50 and L15 50 in the currently produces from the Miocene T4 sands at a Thai 20th licensing round in December 2007 and to production and subsequent depth of ca.
These blocks have field re-development.
sandstones underlie the main producing reservoir expanded the Groups leading acreage position I am exposed to all at depths of circa.
1,350 metres and 1,550 metres sub in the Khorat Plateau Basin.
During 2008 the Group these areas and my work sea respectively.
In order to explore the potential completed a 2D seismic survey in Block L26 50. straddles many disciplines including geology, reservoir of the deeper sands, a pilot hole will be deepened The initial interpretation of the data has identified engineering, production below the T4 during the drilling of one of the 2009 the presence of four large structures in L26 50 engineering and economics.
development wells to investigate the T2 and T3 well located to receive charge from the source Such cross discipline exposure is truly unique sandstones within closures developed against the kitchen proven in the area.
Any observed hydrocarbons Block L15 50 contains a gas discovery called Dao Anand Selveindran in these sandstones will be logged and sampled Ruang.
A 3D seismic survey is planned for Block Reservoir Engineer before the pilot hole is plugged back as a producer in L15 50 designed to help locate appraisal wells in Anand is a Reservoir the main T4 reservoir.
the optimal positions to encounter good quality His main responsibilities are Onshore northeast Thailand, production from the reservoir rock.
to monitor and analyse the Sinphuhorm gas field averaged 82 MMscfd.
During Groups production assets in Thailand through the 2008 the Group drilled the South Phu Horm-1 Lao PDR development of production appraisal well to explore the southern extension system models that are able During 2008 the Group added to its position in of the Sinphuhorm field.
The well encountered to simulate the performance Lao PDR through the addition of a 20% interest in the of the field allowing accurate significant gas shows within a non-fractured section Champasak & Saravan PSC via a cross assignment predictions of future field of the Pha Nok Khao carbonate reservoir that tested production trends.
Anand agreement with PetroVietnam Exploration and gas at low flow rates.
The Group believes that also performs a reservoir Production PVEP whereby PVEP took a 25% management role on Bualuang Sinphuhorm still has the potential for resources in interest in the Groups operated Savannakhet PSC.
field and co-developed a excess of the 1 Tcf of 2P reserves currently booked.
production allocation Gaining an improved understanding of the fracture The Savannakhet PSC contains two significant gas procedure, the in-house development of which network and dolomitization of the reservoir remains prospects each with the potential to contain 1 Tcf of saved the Group an the key to unlocking the full potential of the field.
resources, and an oil prospect with the potential to estimated $250,000.
To this end, the field operator has budgeted for the contain 150 MMbbls.
In 2008 the Group completed a acquisition of a 3D seismic survey in 2009, which 2D seismic survey over these prospects.
This data is is designed to better image the Pha Nok Khao currently being processed and interpreted prior to carbonate reservoir and so enable future appraisal drilling in 2010. and development wells to be optimally located.
Vietnam In February 2008 the Group announced that Top and bottom the Dong Mun-3 appraisal well had found gas in During 2008 the Group expanded its position in Reservoir models of the the primary Pha Nok Khao objective and had also Vietnam by agreeing terms for a PSC in Block 31, Bualuang oil field.
encountered gas in the shallower Jurassic and offshore Southern Vietnam.
The Block 31 PSC, in Triassic clastic reservoirs.
The shallow reservoirs are which Salamander has a 60% operated interest, was prospective in the Phu Kheng structure immediately formally signed and awarded on 10 March 2009.
Block updip of Dong Mun-3 which could represent a new 31 contains both syn-rift and basement plays within play type in the Khorat Plateau Basin.
The Phu Kheng the Vin Chau half graben which is analogous in form structure is a laterally extensive feature covering and geology to the prolific Cuu Long Basin located to an area of 125,000 acres with multi-Tcf gas in place the east.
An extensive 2D seismic survey was acquired potential.
An exploration well is planned in Q2 2009, in Q4 2008, prior to the formal signature of the PSC, which will be located substantially updip of the to capitalise on good commercial rates offered by Dong Mun-3 well at the level of the Jurassic and the contractor.
The data has been processed and is Triassic reservoirs.
currently being interpreted ahead of drilling in 2010.
8 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 9 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 Operational review continued The Seruway PSC, off the northeast coast of Production North Sumatra, which was acquired as part of the GFI acquisition, was subsequently relinquished by the Group in December 2008.
One well, Gurame-1X, was drilled in 2008 to appraise a structure thought to In the Groups operated Cuu Long River Delta Block 1 Completing the Bualuang contain multiple gas bearing sands.
Hydrocarbons PSC, a 722 km seismic programme was completed in development and seeing the first were observed in the target reservoir sandstones 2008 fulfilling the seismic work commitment.
This data which unfortunately displayed low permeability oil pumped to the surface was is now being processed and interpreted in-house to characteristics.
The Group decided to relinquish identify prospects ahead of an anticipated drilling a great moment, especially as it the acreage in order to focus its resources in areas campaign in 2010. coincided with a visit to the of its portfolio considered to have considerably greater prospectivity.
platform by the Chief Executive.
Philippines Offshore North West Java South East Sumatra The field has performed In July 2008 the Lumba Lumba-1 exploration well in well since start up and Production from the Offshore North West Java SC41 was drilled to target multiple stacked objectives phase 2 of the drilling PSC was in-line with expectations and gas sales to should further enhance in a large inversion structure.
The target depth was the Pupak Kujang fertiliser plant began in February performance.
called early as it encountered operational difficulties 2008.
An 11 well infill drilling programme was Erik Klaasse due to formation instability and drilling difficulties Production Manager completed with results generally exceeding the and found no reservoir formations within the section Thailand pre-drill expectations.
Due to water depth restrictions on the Erik is Production Manager drilling rig, only the westernmost prospects in SC41 Production from the South East Sumatra PSC for Salamanders activities in Thailand with responsibility were accessible in this initial drilling campaign and exceeded expectations as a result of an extensive for managing and overseeing geological work indicates that reservoirs are more workover campaign that slowed the forecast decline production from the Bualuang likely to be better developed to the East in deeper rate of the producing fields.
The operator, CNOOC, oil field.
Having previously worked for Shell and Conocowater.
The joint venture partners have subsequently continued an infill drilling programme throughout the Phillips.
Erik has been based integrated the results of this well with the existing data year to help maintain production levels.
The successful in Thailand for over 10 years and are reprocessing the seismic data to better define Mila-3 appraisal well gave support to the development overseeing the start up of production on Chevrons the numerous untested structures on the block.
potential of the Mila gas reservoir.
Benchamas field and then the Jasmine oil field for The Offshore North West Java and South East Sumatra Indonesia Pearl Energy.
PSCs continue to provide solid and reliable production North Sumatra of circa 6,000 boepd net to the Group.
The Group now holds a 50% working interest and East Kalimantan operatorship of the Glagah-Kambuna TAC, containing In 2008, the Group continued to develop its acreage the Kambuna gas condensate field.
position in East Kalimantan by adding interests in three The Kambuna gas field development is progressing licenses.
Two of these, the Kutai PSC and the South well with first production expected at the mid year East Sangatta PSC, are located in the Kutei basin: the 2009 and a rapid ramp up to the full daily contracted Bengara-1 PSC, is located in the Tarakan basin.
Development drilling has Kutei basin is one of the most prolific in Indonesia and been completed and the three wells on the structure the Group now has the leading independent tested at a combined rate in excess of 100 Mscfd exploration acreage position in this basin.
and 8,000 barrels of condensate per day.
Gas sales Top In the operated Bontang PSC, the Group drilled two agreements have been finalised for the sale of 40 Phase 1 development, wells to appraise the Tutung gas discovery.
The Tutung Bualuang oil field, Gulf of MMscfd of gas at an average price of $5.90 per Mscf Alpha-1 well was completed in February 2008 and Thailand.
penetrated multiple hydrocarbon bearing sandstones.
Bottom Rubicon Vantage FPSO, The multi-phase pipeline from the field to the In July, a drill stem testing programme was completed Bualuang oil field, Gulf of processing facilities onshore at Pangkalan Branden across two zones in the Middle Miocene Pulubalang Thailand.
The topsides for the offshore formation sandstones.
The main zone flowed at 14 production platform were installed in March 2009 MMscfd and 475 barrels of condensate per day with and work is ongoing to complete the onshore rates constrained by the testing equipment available.
10 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 11 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008
