Operating review OPERATING PROFIT BY GEOGRAPHY UK OPERATING PROFIT BY SECTOR Americas 24% Sugar 11% Asia Pacific 22% Agriculture 47% Europe, Middle East 14% Retail & Africa 5% 28% Grocery 15% Ingredients 34% 6 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our business in action Financial statements These good results demonstrate the resilience of the group when faced with a number of challenges.
Group revenue increased by 21% to 8.2bn and adjusted operating profit growing better for you category and in Australia, the acquisition of increased by 7% to 664m.
These good results again demonstrate the KR Castlemaine and the plans for its integration with our existing operation resilience of the group when faced with a number of challenges, most there has created a market-leading business.
Since the year end we have notably the continuing impact of EU sugar regime reform, the pressure announced the creation of a packaged oil joint venture with Archer Daniels on consumer spending in many parts of the world and sharply higher Midland in the US and this new entity has exciting prospects for growth, commodity costs.
particularly in the foodservice sector.
The ACH business that remains will be more brand focused and consumer orientated.
Our sugar operations performed well.
The businesses in Europe are now emerging from the restructuring that has taken place over recent years in response to regime reform and will benefit from greater stability in their Sugar & Agriculture operations and certainty in their markets.
Illovo has gone from strength to strength and has continued to build its capability, and our business in China sugar: Revenue 1,267m has taken on an entirely different shape with the creation of a new beet 2007, 1,151m sugar business in the north east.
Adjusted operating profit 153m Agriculture had a quite extraordinary year and demonstrated its agility by responding quickly to an extremely volatile market.
It has developed 2007, 199m its customer and supplier relationships with its strong market position providing confidence in difficult economic conditions.
Sugar profit was substantially lower than last year reflecting the further effects of EU sugar regime reform The excellent increases in sales and profit at Primark are the result of good like-for-like sales growth and the substantial investment in retail selling on our UK and Polish operations which amounted to space in recent years.
They are also a testament to its continued success in 50m.
Furthermore, profits were reduced in China with delivering the latest fashions, manufactured to good quality and ethically lower sugar prices as a result of a record crop despite sourced, at affordable prices.
earlier fears of the effects of frost damage to the cane Our grocery businesses grew strongly last year with profits up 27%.
Illovo continued to trade well with higher substantial improvement at Allied Bakeries was enormously encouraging volumes and the benefit of higher domestic and world and Twinings Ovaltine, Westmill and milling and baking in Australia all delivered excellent results.
Our commitment to the groups expansion and development is underlined Profit in the UK and Poland was impacted by an increase in the restructuring by the continuing strong investment in capital expenditure and acquisitions levy per tonne from 1126 last year to 1174 and an increase in the temporary in all businesses, most notably in sugar and Primark.
We have embarked upon quota reduction from 152,000 tonnes to 191,000 tonnes.
The UK campaign a number of important projects that will see several hundred million pounds was successful but profit was also lower as a result of higher energy costs invested over a two or three year timeframe that will change the scale of and a smaller crop of 1.05 million tonnes of sugar which was affected by our operations, notably in sugar production in southern Africa, particularly the heavy mid-summer rains in 2007.
A number of projects have been Zambia, and north east China, in meat and dairy in Australia, enzymes in successfully implemented in the UK which improve energy efficiency at our Finland, yeast and yeast extracts in China, biofuels in the UK and further new factories and underpin the new manufacturing configuration following the stores for Primark.
closure of York and Allscott.
Poland had an exceptionally good campaign with production of 227,000 tonnes and new operating records set at There have been a number of significant developments in the grocery Glinojeck.
The strengthening of the euro benefited the profitability of the business over the last few years, which have strengthened the portfolio UK business with some offset from the strength of the zloty against the considerably.
The acquisition of Pataks and its integration this year with euro on the Polish business.
Blue Dragon created a major retail ethnic foods business with a strong UK presence and potential for expansion elsewhere in Europe.
The completion The European Commission has confirmed that a total of 5.65 million tonnes of the Jordans merger with Ryvita has produced a strong player in the of quota for sugar, inulin and isoglucose has been permanently renounced Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 Operating review Explaining the business From beet to bowl: The beet sugar production process We all take it for granted, but do we all know where it comes from and how it makes its way into our sugar bowls?
limestone sugar beet river water fuel power station steam unloading lime sampling weighing treated water and storage low temp heat evaporation co2 filter thick juice cleaning slicing diffusion milk of storage lime tank clarify and filter horticulture ferment filter electricity and distil crystallisation silos screen grade wash and pelleting and and screen pack pack dry screen and mix resin separation topsoil stones animal feed lime sugar products betaine bioethanol tomatoes electricity stage one beet processing stage two purification stage three crystallisation marketed as TopSoil for use by and concentration and storage landscapers, architects and farmers.
Sugar beet is washed in large rotary Lime used in the purification process The juice is passed through a The crystallisation process takes place drums.
Stones and soil are caught is sold under the LimeX brand for purification stage called carbonatation.
in vacuum pans which boil the juice.
Clean beet enters the soil conditioning.
Juice is mixed with milk of lime and When the juice reaches the correct factory, and is sliced into thin slices carbon dioxide gas.
The carbon dioxide concentration it is seeded with tiny called cossettes.
At Wissington factory, the Combined and the milk of lime re-combine to sugar crystals which provide the Heat and Power CHP plant exports Sugar is extracted from the beet by produce calcium carbonate which nucleus for larger crystals to grow.
enough electricity to the grid to diffusion.
This process takes place in precipitates out, removing most of power a large town.
The hot water When the crystals reach the required a large vessel and is often described the impurities from the juice.
and carbon dioxide from the CHP size the process is stopped and the as being akin to brewing tea in a boiler is utilised to propagate over The pale yellow juice which remains resultant mixture of crystal sugar teapot.
The cossettes are mixed with 70 million tomatoes each year.
is called thin juice and while much and syrup known as massecuite hot water at around 70C and the purer it is still relatively low in sugar is spun in centrifuges to separate the sugar simply passes from the plant Bioethanol is also produced by the content.
It passes to the next stage sugar from the mother liquor.
fermentation of sugar followed by of the process evaporation where sugar crystals are washed and, after distillation to produce a pure alcohol.
The vegetable material left behind is water is boiled off in a series of drying and cooling, are conveyed to Close integration with the sugar pressed to extract as much remaining evaporator vessels to increase the storage silos.
factory yields savings in excess of sugar and water as possible and, after solids content of the juice from 16% co-products 60% in CO emissions compared 2 the addition of molasses, is dried to in thin juice to 65% as thick juice.
Nothing is wasted during production.
The liquid The concentrated juice passes Stones removed during beet cleaning resulting from the diffusion process is Finally, betaine is produced, a through filters, after which it is ready are used in civil engineering, while dark in colour and is called raw juice.
for the final stage of the process.
soil is graded and conditioned and 8 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our business in action Financial statements across the EU, virtually achieving its targeted reduction of six million tonnes markets also had a favourable impact on the results in Malawi and Zambia in EU sugar production.
Almost all of this reduction is effective from October and offset a difficult start-up at the Nakambala mill in Zambia following 2008 and, given that Least Developed Countries LDC tariff-free imports completion of the first phase of its expansion.
will not flow into the EU until October 2009 in any significant quantity, This initial phase involved the development of additional irrigated cane by there is an expectation that the coming year will see the EU market in private growers and an increase in milling capacity.
The final phase of the deficit.
The final changes of reform to sugar reference price, levies, beet expansion programme is currently underway which will greatly increase the prices and access for LDC will become effective in October 2009 and have power generation capability as well as extend milling capacity further and already been announced.
No further changes are expected until the next develop additional acreage of irrigated cane.
On completion we will have review of the regime which is scheduled to be effective from October 2015. almost doubled sugar production at Nakambala.
Smaller expansion British Sugar received confirmation during the year that its application schemes in Malawi and Tanzania have also been completed with strong to renounce permanently 206,000 tonnes of UK and Polish sugar quota performances from both countries.
The resulting EU quota for these businesses is now Germains, our seed coating business, performed well.
Its seed priming 1.21 million tonnes.
The income statement includes an exceptional credit of technology is now firmly established with the European and US beet 25m comprising compensation receivable from the EU less factory closure sugar industries as providing a yield advantage over unprimed variants.
costs and the write-off of the unamortised cost of quota purchased in 2006.
Wissington has been fully operational in the production of bioethanol from beet sugar for over a year.
Yields were ahead of expectation and the price of agriculture: Revenue 867m ethanol in Europe firmed during the year.
Vivergo, our joint venture with BP 2007, 645m and DuPont, is building a world-scale bioethanol plant that will use wheat Adjusted operating profit 33m as its feedstock.
Full planning consent has now been granted for the site at Hull and construction has commenced.
Engineering contracts for the major 2007, 18m plant items have been placed and it is anticipated that the site will be commissioned during 2010.
AB Agri, our agriculture business, had a very strong year This year has seen noteworthy development in our sugar business in China.
during which the combination of its trading skills, market Our cane sugar crop in the south exceeded earlier expectations, we built a knowledge and customer relationships enabled it to significant business in beet sugar in the north east and the combined crop outperform a market characterised by extremely volatile yielded 755,000 tonnes of sugar.
However, profit was held back by much raw material prices.
European grain prices doubled during lower sugar prices.
National production of sugar in China increased from 12 million tonnes in 2006 7 to 14.9 million tonnes in 2007 8 and so, the first half of the year and low grain stocks worldwide, despite strong growth in demand, which was up 8% year-on-year, and even unpredicted weather events and heavy trading in the government measures to remove volume, sugar prices fell sharply in the commodity markets resulted in unprecedented levels of second half of the year.
Construction of the Jinchengjiang mill in Guangxi is daily price volatility.
Stronger feed prices were sufficient well underway and is due to be completed by the end of this calendar year.
to offset higher raw material and energy costs, lower We have created a business in north east China comprising 11 beet volumes of molassed sugar beet feed and increased sugar factories operating in Heilongjiang, Hebei and Inner Mongolia.
The production costs in our ruminant feeds business.
business was formed by the acquisition of factories that were previously independently owned and operated and which have been combined into a Frontier is our grain supply joint venture.
It has a strong balance sheet, single, co-ordinated entity, ideally positioned to supply the important Beijing access to working capital and superior market knowledge which and Harbin markets.
At the year end we held a 51% shareholding in the differentiate it from its competitors.
Through its leading market position, business which has since been increased to 65%.
A five-year development unique centralised operating structure and national trading system, it was plan for the factories and for the advancement of beet growing technology ideally placed to manage the extreme price volatility during the year on in the region is in place, the first part of which will be completed in behalf of its grain customers and farmer suppliers.
Moreover, higher cereal December 2008 with the expansion of Qianqi and Yian factories.
In addition and oilseed prices encouraged an increase in UK sowings resulting in a more a joint venture, BoCheng, has been created which operates the factory at buoyant market for Frontiers fertilisers, seed varieties and crop protection Beifeng in Heilongjiang province.
The businesses have established strong products.
As expected, the business has now concluded an agreement links with both local and provincial government and are investing in to supply Vivergo with over one million tonnes of feed wheat for its technical colleges to support this long-term development programme.
We are establishing an increasingly international presence in the high WE HAVE CREATEd A BEET SuGAR technology, high added-value feeds market which specialises in micro-feed ingredients that enhance nutrient absorption and provide a better return for BuSInESS In nORTH EAST CHInA farmers.
Sales of feed enzymes by AB Vista were particularly buoyant with WHICH IS IdEAllY POSITIOnEd TO several new products launched and a doubling of the number of countries served over the last two years.
New sales offices in the US, Mexico, India SuPPlY THE IMPORTAnT BEIjInG and China were established during the year.
Our feeds business in China was relatively untouched by the widely reported natural disasters that occurred there.
We achieved strong sales Profit at Illovo grew strongly and the crop increased to 1.82 million tonnes growth in each of the species markets that we supply.
Our mill building of sugar.
Strengthening world sugar prices, which favourably impact world programme is continuing and on completion will deliver a 20% increase sugar sales out of South Africa, higher downstream product prices and in production capacity.
a favourable rand US dollar exchange rate all benefited the performance in the year.
Strong domestic revenues and higher sales to neighbouring Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9 Operating review Explaining the business Primark: The story so far The remarkable story of Primarks success goes all the way back to 1969, with the first store opening in Dublin.
Now, with new store openings across Europe, we take a look at the key factors that played a part in getting the brand to where it is today.
Where it all began, 1969 2. rapid growth across the uk and ireland: By 1984, sales had grown to 86m from 44 stores equally split across the UK and Ireland.
Over the next ten years, the number 5 of stores increased by 50% stores in dublin and sales rose by over 1. the early years: At the end of the sixties, Penneys commenced business in Dublin and within its first year of trading had opened five stores with 240% turnover of around 1m.
By 1973, Ireland had 18 stores and the company started trading in the UK 3.
1995 a milestone year: The strategic 4. new millennium heralds further acquisition: The turn of the acquisition of the BHS One-Up discount chain century saw the acquisitions of 11 stores from the Co-op, and the purchase added 16 sizeable stores to its UK business, of the same number of outlets from C&A.
Expansion continued in 2005 primarily in the Greater London area.
Within with the acquisition of the total Littlewoods estate.
After the subsequent a year these new outlets had increased sales refurbishment programme was complete, an additional 41 stores were in the UK by 40% opened by 2007 6. european expansion: Primarks successful foray into Spain has demonstrated that the Primark value proposition travels well.
The next countries to enjoy the Primark experience will be the Netherlands and Germany.
5. spain: With expansion in Ireland and the UK continuing apace, May 2006 saw the opening of a test store in a brand new continental European market.
Primark Total sales at the end of Tiendas opened at the Plenilunio shopping mall near Madrids International Airport and was an instant hit.
Further stores followed and currently there are nine, with more in the pipeline 2008: 1.9bn 10 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our business in action Financial statements AB Agri is taking a central role in a number of schemes to promote performed well.
We opened new stores in Jerez, Bilbao, Oviedo and sustainable agricultural practice.
The first Carbon Trust accredited, Zaragoza and a further three stores in Madrid, bringing our total there to greenhouse gas reduction model for dairy farms was launched to four.
Our arrival in Spain gathered momentum this year and began to enjoy Sainsburys dairy suppliers and our WildCare scheme on biodiversity, the same critical acclaim from the retail trade that we have experienced which we operate in conjunction with Waitrose, was awarded the Green in the UK and Ireland, culminating in the receipt of our first major Spanish Apple Award for Environmental Best Practice.
award, Best Shopping Centre Retailer 2008.
We expect to add at least a further four stores in Spain in the coming year and have announced plans to open test stores to explore the potential in Retail the Netherlands and Germany, the first of which is expected to open early in 2009.
There are still great opportunities for growth in the UK and Ireland Revenue 1,933m where the pipeline of new stores is strong and plans are already in place 2007, 1,602m to open stores in Cambridge, Corby, Edinburgh and High Wycombe in the coming year.
Adjusted operating profit 233m During the year we ceased to trade with three suppliers in the Tirupur 2007, 200m garment producing area of India.
This area is a major production centre for the worlds garment retailers and has experienced rapid expansion and Primark achieved excellent growth in sales and profit development in recent years.
It has therefore become a major centre for again this year.
Sales increased by 21% as a result of wealth creation and employment and Primark spent some 100m last year growth in retail selling space and like-for-like sales in the region.
Buying from developing countries is an important catalyst for their social and economic development.
However, there are additional growth of 4% for the full year.
This organic growth was complexities when sourcing products from developing economies.
remarkably strong given the already reported weak trading in April when poor weather this year contrasted All our suppliers are required to comply with a strict code of conduct which lays down, amongst other things, minimum standards of health and safety, with warm weather and the benefit of Easter trading in welfare, human rights and wages that we are prepared to accept in relation the comparative period last year.
This performance was to the treatment of their employees.
We employ our own in-region ethical against a background of declining consumer confidence managers as well as third-party auditors to check that our suppliers meet which highlights both the continued growth of the value their contractual obligations and that proper standards are being maintained.
Where we find shortcomings we work closely with suppliers to remedy the clothing sectors share of the retail market and Primarks deficiencies and, in this way, seek to play our part in the general improvement ability to thrive in difficult economic circumstances.
The three suppliers, whose contracts were not renewed Profit increased by 17% to 233m but operating profit margin reduced from during the year, were engaged with us in such an improvement programme 12.5% to 12.1%.
Although gross margins were broadly the same, overheads when it came to light that these suppliers were subcontracting without were impacted by higher distribution costs, including the cost of supporting Primarks knowledge.
Our own extensive investigations concluded that the the new stores in Spain, and higher occupancy costs driven by increased breach of trust in this case was so serious as to make further attempts at depreciation.
As a consequence of recent and anticipated further remediation impossible.
Our presence in the garment industries of the expansion, we opened another major distribution centre at Thrapston, developing world is a force for good but we are acutely aware of our Northamptonshire, at the end of the financial year, increasing our UK responsibility to ensure that all activity within our supply chain meets capacity by some 50%.
We are dedicated to working towards this goal with all stakeholders: suppliers, governments regional and national We opened 12 stores during the year: seven in Spain, one in the Republic of and Non-Governmental Organisations see www.
com for Ireland and four in the UK: but we also closed the smaller store in Brighton more information.
to bring the total to 181 stores at the year end.
Retail selling space increased by 13% over the period to 5.4 million sq ft. new store openings: uk: Basingstoke, Brighton Spain: Madrid Islazul, Parque The number of prestigious awards won relocation, Derby, Ealing Corredor, Xanadu, Bilbao, Jerez, by Primark this year including Oviedo, Zaragoza UK Retailer of the year Ireland: Cork Prima High St Fashion Awards Best Value lk Today High St Fashion Awards Best Town Centre Retailer 9 Property Week Retail Awards In Ireland we carried out two major store refits, extended our Galway store and opened a new store in Cork.
In the UK, we opened a third floor at our largest store in Manchester, increasing selling space to 136,000 sq ft, and extended sales floors in Nottingham and Newcastle.
We opened new stores in Ealing, Basingstoke and Brighton and, following the compulsory purchase of our old store, made a return to Derby, one of the first cities in the UK to enjoy the Primark experience when it arrived in 1974.
Our Spanish stores Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 Operating review Explaining the business Strategic investment: A great uk brand portfolio ABF has continually built upon its focused portfolio of UK brands to deliver a strong grocery offering Ovaltines traditional products are For nearly 300 years, Twinings has been Silver Spoon is the number one largely unchanged from their original using its blending expertise to create a wide supplier to the UK retail sugar and recipes but are now consumed in a range of high quality teas enjoyed in over sweetener market and a major sugar far broader way throughout the day 100 countries across the world supplier to the foodservice market ovomaltine.
co. uk Blue Dragon offers authentic Pataks is recognised as authentic Indian food Jordans specialises in natural ingredients for customers to create that is quick to prepare.
Its cooking sauces, curry wholegrain foods with minimal delicious dishes from China, pastes, chutneys, pickles, breads and pappadums processing.
It launched the UKs first Thailand, Japan and Vietnam make it easy to prepare authentic Indian dishes cereal bar and also makes breakfast cereals jordanscereals.
co. uk From the creation of its first Kingsmills relaunched bread range Dr Thomas Allinson set up his first flour mill crispbread in the 1930s, Ryvita features standard and premium products in 1892.
He was passionate about natural has continually grown its range of to satisfy every familys needs products, a tradition we have kept alive to wholegrain foods made from rye alliedbakeries.
co. uk this day in our wholemeal flour and bread ryvita.
com 12 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our business in action Financial statements The performance of Allied Bakeries improved significantly year-on-year.
Grocery Bread volumes increased with a strong focus on quality, availability and customer service.
After several years of volume decline, the UK bread Revenue 3,254m market has now stabilised and following its successful relaunch in 2007, the Kingsmill brand continued to gain market share.
A strong advertising 2007, 2,605m campaign focused on the core range and drove the portfolio, most notably Adjusted operating profit 194m in Great Everyday White and 50 50, a white bread with wholemeal flour.
We launched new premium Kingsmill products under the Seeds and Oats 2007, 153m range.
Allinson benefited from its national relaunch with new products and packaging and advertising support.
Revenue for the year increased 25% on last year.
This AB World Foods delivered encouraging growth in its Blue Dragon and was driven through a combination of acquisitions, price Pataks brands both in the UK and international markets, particularly increases to recover commodity cost inflation and Australia and Russia.
Market share increased in pastes and sauces in glass, volume growth.
Profit was ahead 27% as a result of the and stir fry and dipping sauces.
Meenas, a premium Indian sauce range, substantial improvement at Allied Bakeries and good was launched this summer and is performing well at this early stage.
The growth from Twinings Ovaltine, Westmill and milling integration of Blue Dragon and Pataks was successfully achieved during the year.
The combined business now operates with a single UK distribution and baking in Australia.
system, a common IT platform and a unified sales force.
The Blue Dragon Commodity cost inflation has been a feature for all of our grocery factory in Poland was commissioned and production was transferred from businesses this year.
Some had seen costs rise at the end of summer last the factories in Wales that were then closed.
year and had already begun pricing negotiations with customers.
Twinings Profit at Westmill Foods increased despite significant rises in the cost of Ovaltine experienced increases in barley and dairy costs, substantial edible oils, rice, flour and spices.
These higher costs were successfully increases in wheat costs affected our bakery businesses in the UK and recovered whilst maintaining volume growth in the key brands with Green Australia, and very strong demand for vegetable oils saw the price of corn, Dragon, Tolly Boy rice and Lucky Boat noodles performing particularly well.
soy and canola oils rise sharply in the US.
Commodity price increases continued into this financial year together with steeply rising energy costs.
Refined sugar volumes increased significantly at Silver Spoon but profits Our businesses reacted quickly to recover these costs by raising prices declined reflecting the lower margins in the very competitive UK retail although price increases at ACH in the US were delayed until after the high sugar market.
Good growth was achieved in our Fairtrade business with a demand period running up to Christmas.
highlight being the conversion of Sainsburys own label sugar to Fairtrade in partnership with Illovo.
Fairtrade proceeds benefited farmers co-operatives Twinings Ovaltine had another very good year with revenue up 17% on last in Malawi and Zambia.
The Billingtons brand of unrefined sugars also year.
Twinings in the UK benefited from the continued growth of Everyday experienced strong growth.
Tea and a strong performance in green teas.
Our flavoured infusions range was relaunched containing only natural ingredients which is a unique At ACH in the US, the Mazola vegetable oil brand experienced some volume position in the market.
In the US, Twinings was the fastest growing tea decline following sharp price increases to recover higher corn oil costs.
brand, supported by the national rollout of our successful regional media The baking brands, Argo, Karo and Fleischmanns, and gourmet spices, Spice campaign.
In Australia, we launched Simply Twinings, our everyday offering Islands, Weber Grill and Tones all delivered volume growth supported by in that market, and sales and market share increased following television increased marketing.
In Mexico, Capullo performed well with volumes held advertising featuring Nigella Lawson.
Sales of Ovaltine increased 12% this year with growth across the range of powder, ready-to-drink and brand extensions.
Growth in the North ASEAN THE GROuPS GROCERY BuSInESSES region was led by another excellent performance in Thailand where we strengthened our number one position.
Ready-to-drink and the successful MAdE ExCEllEnT PROGRESS In THE launch of Ovomaltine crunchy biscuits drove strong sales growth of the YEAR dElIVERInG SuBSTAnTIAllY brand in Switzerland.
HIGHER PROFITS AGAInST A Good progress was made in improving access to certain key markets.
We BACkGROund OF SHARPlY RISInG established a new joint venture in Japan, signed new distribution agreements in Indonesia and established new and more-targeted routes to market in COMMOdITY COSTS.
Russia Twinings and Brazil Ovaltine.
Supply chain efficiencies were achieved during the year.
The Ovaltine factory in Manila was closed and production was On 28 October 2008 we announced the creation of Stratas Foods, transferred to existing factories in Thailand and China where we have made a joint venture with Archer Daniels Midland Company ADM for the significant investments in increased capacity.
The tea packing plant in Belfast manufacture, marketing and distribution of packaged oil products in the was also closed with production consolidated into our UK facilities.
ABF and ADM will each hold a 50% share in the joint The merger of Ryvita and Jordans was completed on 29 August 2008. venture which will be headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee.
ABF will We have a 62% interest in the combined entity and integration of these contribute US$38m of assets from the ACH oils business, primarily in the businesses is now underway.
Ryvitas sales were driven by a strong form of trademarks, whilst ADM will contribute packaging equipment at performance in UK crispbread with continued growth of premium variants, four of its facilities in the US.
pricing to recover raw material inflation and marketing support.
New product launches included flatbreads, branded Ryvita Thins, and baked wholegrain savoury snacks, Ryvita Limbos.
Significant work has been undertaken on a major relaunch of the Jordans brand including new packaging formats, formulations and increased marketing support.
This is being rolled out in the UK this autumn.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13 Operating review Explaining the business The magic ingredient: The yeast production process The essential ingredient in the production of so many of our day-to-day products.
stage one stage two stage three stage four seed semi-seed fermenter fermenter filter frozen press vial yeast storage beet growth molasses tube commercial semi-seed fermenter fermenter pre-pure culture cane tank molasses semi-seed yeast storage separation washing pure culture fermenter flash sterile yeast steriliser mash tank cooler pre-pure culture tank where seed These commercial fermenters are up is kept at approximately 86 degrees stage one molasses and raw material preparation is grown under sterile conditions to 50,000 gallons in size and are the Fahrenheit 30 degrees Celsius and before being transferred to a larger final step in the fermentation process.
Yeast production takes approximately pure culture fermenter.
From the five days from start to finish and stage four filtration Following addition of the seed pure culture vessel, the grown and packaging begins with the energy source for yeast, aeration, cooling and nutrient cells are transferred to a series yeast growth sugar.
Beet and cane At the end of fermentation, the additions are started to begin a of progressively larger seed and molasses are commonly used resultant broth is separated, washed 1520 hour fermentation.
These later because the sugars present in with water and re-centrifuged to beginning of the fermentation, the stages are conducted as fed-batch molasses are readily fermentable.
yield a yeast cream, which is then liquid seed yeast and additional fermentations where the yeast Yeast also needs minerals, vitamins cooled to about 45 degrees water may occupy only about one is fed molasses, phosphoric acid, and salts for growth, which are often Fahrenheit 7 degrees Celsius.
third to one half of the fermenter ammonia and minerals.
added to the molasses prior to flash Cream yeast can be loaded directly volume.
Constant additions of sterilisation which produces the stage three fermentation into tankers for delivery direct to nutrients during the course of and harvesting mash or wort used to feed the yeast customers or can be pumped to a fermentation bring the fermenter to as it grows.
At the end of the semi-seed plate and frame filter press and its final volume.
The rate of nutrient fermentation, the spent molasses dewatered to a cake-like consistency, stage two culture or addition increases throughout the seed yeast preparation are removed and the yeast is washed which is crumbled into pieces and fermentation and by the end of the with cold water and held in a storage refrigerated.
Bags of yeast can then Yeast production starts with a pure process the number of yeast cells tank at 34 degrees Fahrenheit be distributed to customers in culture tube or frozen vial of the will have increased by between 1 degree Celsius before it inoculates refrigerated trucks.
This yeast five and eight times.
During the commercial fermentation tanks.
serves as the inoculum for the fermentation the temperature 14 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 packaging yeast cooler palletiser distribution Business review Our business in action Financial statements Stratas Foods will serve the foodservice, speciality food ingredient and retail In October 2007 we acquired, from Gilde Bakery Ingredients, their sales private label bottled oil markets.
It is expected to produce 2.5 billion lbs of and distribution operations in France and Benelux and the Italian business, oil in its first full year of operation with revenue of some US$1.4bn.
Its broad including the Casteggio wet and dry yeast plant.
The sales and distribution portfolio of products includes vegetable oil, shortening, margarine and pan operations have been successfully integrated and we have been able to spray and its foodservice brands include Whirl and Frymax.
The joint venture deliver significant cost savings at the Italian plant.
Since the year end the combines the strengths of two leaders in the packaged oils industry.
It will European Commission has approved the completion of the acquisition of build on the sales and marketing expertise of ACH, and the origination and a 50% shareholding in the Uniferm yeast and bakery ingredients business processing capabilities of ADM.
It will offer an integrated supply chain, in Germany.
exceptional processing capabilities and industry-leading product development.
The remaining ACH business will focus on its retail consumer brands.
Brands In BAkERY InGREdIEnTS WE are now expected to account for virtually all of ACHs revenue compared to COnTInuEd TO SHARE TECHnOlOGY only half before the formation of the joint venture.
ACROSS THE GROuP And HAVE Our Australian grocery business delivered strong sales growth with significantly improved performances from milling, baking and bakery STARTEd TO SEE THE BEnEFIT In OuR ingredients.
In baking, price increases were successfully achieved in GlOBAl ACCOunTS.
Noble Rise bread was relaunched with five new variants under the slogan Take a stand against the Bland and Burgen was upgraded to facilitate a stronger health claim backed by the The expansion of the Chinese yeast plant in Harbin has progressed well.
Manufacturing efficiences will be achieved This expansion is to meet increasing domestic demand and to provide a low with the announced closures of the Canberra and Orange bakeries in cost base for the supply of dry yeast globally.
A new yeast extracts plant New South Wales.
is also being constructed alongside the yeast plant to provide additional capacity now that the existing German plant is fully utilised.
We have seen The acquisition of KR Castlemaine, a leading meat and smallgoods the continuation of the trend towards tighter environmental controls manufacturer, was completed at the end of March.
It is located in a large, around the world and have been investing to upgrade our facilities to keep modern facility at Castlemaine, 70 miles northwest of Melbourne.
We have pace with changing regulatory requirements.
announced the proposed rationalisation of our meat business for which an exceptional provision has been included in the income statement.
This will At ABF Ingredients, enzyme profits grew strongly with sales to the food allow the closure of our existing factories in Perth and Melbourne in 2009 and beverage and animal feeds markets performing particularly well.
and 2010 and the transfer of production to the newly acquired, low-cost The increased demand for enzymes has led to further investment to factory at Castlemaine which will be expanded to accommodate the higher expand capacity at our plant in Finland by some 40%.
The combined business will be the market leader in smallgoods commissioned early next summer.
Profitability declined at our speciality in Australia and will double the size of our existing business with sales of protein business in the US with an inability to fully recover milk and dairy over 300m.
commodity price increases in a very competitive market.
Since the year end we have announced the decision to close the loss-making milk protein factory in Norfolk, Nebraska, and the remaining business will concentrate Ingredients on the production of whey proteins at Juda, Wisconsin.
The sale of Abitec, our small, UK-based, emulsifier business, was completed in August.
Revenue 842m 2007, 698m George Weston Adjusted operating profit 75m Chief Executive 2007, 71m Revenue increased by 21% driven by organic growth in the yeast business and the acquisition of the Gilde Bakery Ingredients business in Italy.
There was sustained upward pressure on energy costs and key raw material prices, notably molasses and phosphates.
Some cost recovery was achieved through price increases, but was inadequate in the very competitive milk proteins business.
Profit margins fell as a result.
Good profit progress was made across the world in yeast and bakery ingredients with good volume growth in South America and China.
Brazil had an exceptional year.
We continued to grow our bakery ingredients businesses, both through craft bakery and industrial channels.
In particular, we have been able to exploit our proprietary enzyme technology and continue to build strong partnerships with the worlds largest bakeries.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15
