12 12 S SO OC CO I O In nt te er rn na at tiio on na al p l pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 00 08 8 Business Review Review of Operations Several significant milestones were reached during 2008 that advanced SOCOs projects.
Oilfields in both Thailand and Vietnam commenced first production.
A Declaration of Commerciality was approved at the Companys largest field discovery to date.
Two appraisal areas were approved by the national oil company in Vietnam, one of which has the potential to equal our success to date in this country.
Pre-drilling work has us poised to begin drilling in Africa this year.
Additionally, new projects were added to the portfolio that will allow us to potentially realise even more value in the future.
During January 2009 production net to the Companys working interest averaged 3,724 barrels of oil equivalent per day BOEPD and 2,874 barrels of oil per day BOPD from the Ca Ngu Vang field offshore Vietnam and the Bualuang field offshore Thailand, respectively.
During the cost recoupment phase of the Ca Ngu Vang field, entitlements production is considerably higher than our 25% working interest.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 13 Between February and May, a further Vietnam Review of Operations development well was drilled but SOCO holds its interests in the Cuu Long continued suspended pending installation of the Basin through its 80% owned subsidiary unmanned platform.
A high sea state SOCO Vietnam Ltd SOCO Vietnam and at the end of May caused an intermittent through its 100% ownership of OPECO, shut down of operations on the pipe Inc. SOCO Vietnam holds a 25% working laying barge, slowing the installation of the interest in Block 9-2, which is operated production and water injection pipelines by the Hoan Vu Joint Operating Company between the CNV well head platform and HVJOC and holds a 28.5% working VIETNAM the Bach Ho central processing platform.
interest in Block 16-1, which is operated Nevertheless, despite the unanticipated by the Hoang Long Joint Operating delay, oil production remained on target Company HLJOC.
OPECO, Inc. holds to begin by the end of July 2008.
During a 2% working interest in Block 16-1.
June, the installation of the topsides and modules on the platform were completed The Cuu Long Basin is a shallow water, THAILAND and the PVD-1 drilling rig returned to CNV near shore, oil rich basin defined by from the Te Giac Trang TGT field, where several high profile producing oil fields, it had been redeployed to drill TGT-6X the largest of which has been the during the platform installation.
The three Bach Ho field, which lies between existing development wells were then Block 9-2 and Block 16-1.
Bach Ho tied-back and completed.
has produced more than one billion barrels of oil to date.
The first flow of crude oil and wet gas occurred from CNV on 25 July 2008.
Block 9-2 The hydrocarbons are transported from Ca Ngu Vang CNV CNV via a 25 kilometre subsea pipeline As all remaining acreage has been system to the processing facilities at relinquished, activity during 2008 on Bach Ho.
Crude oil is processed and then Block 9-2 focused on the development of the CNV field, which came on stream stored in a floating storage and offloading in July.
Since that time, additional vessel before being sold.
The wet gas development drilling has been taking produced from CNV is separated offshore place concurrent with production.
and transported to an onshore gas facility Development drilling began in the prior for further distribution to meet domestic year with the first production well, the demand of natural gas, LPG and CNV-1PST reaching total depth on the condensate.
The HVJOC has signed a last day of 2007.
In the subsequent provisional gas contract with Vietnam Oil abbreviated test, carried out in the first and Gas Group, with final pricing to be quarter of 2008, the well tested at determined by an independent expert approximately 10,000 barrels of liquid during 2009 and applied retroactively per day with a 30% water cut.
back to the start of production.
14 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financials Business Review Financials Financials Antony Maris Vice President Operations and Production Two appraisal wells were completed in The CNV field utilises an unmanned the TGT field during the period.
In June, platform that is tied back to the Bach Ho the TGT-6X appraisal well, drilled on the central processing platform.
This marks H4 fault block as a down dip test to the a key milestone in the growth of the TGT-3X exploration well, reached 3,437 Vietnam petroleum industry, being the first metres measured depth MD as planned.
project in Vietnam to utilise the existing Two drill stem tests DSTs flowed at a facilities of Bach Ho in order to maximise combined maximum rate of 14,490 BOPD the life of existing infrastructure and of 39 degree API gravity crude oil.
Although the well flowed gas with a Development continued after first oil and relatively low gas to oil ratio, measurement the sixth well, the CNV-6P, is currently problems precluded recording a reliable being drilled.
The HVJOC is evaluating gas rate.
The first DST tested an interval the necessity for further drilling locations between 3,064 metres and 3,094 metres for additional development wells in the in the Miocene Intra Lower Bach Ho 5.2 fractured Basement reservoir.
The CNV ILBH lower interval and flowed field is expected to be in production for approximately 6,650 BOPD through an the next 20 years, with oil production 80 64 inch choke size.
The second DST anticipated to be between 10,000 and tested a 28 metre section in the ILBH 5.2 20,000 BOPD and wet gas production upper interval with a maximum flow rate to be between 25 and 50 million standard of approximately 7,840 BOPD through a cubic feet per day MMSCFD.
Block 16-1 The second appraisal well to be drilled Te Giac Trang TGT during the period, and the seventh The TGT field comprises five fault blocks exploration appraisal well to be drilled in extending over 15 kilometres on a north the TGT field, was the TGT-7X.
The well to south trend along the eastern portion was drilled by the Adriatic XI rig to test a of Block 16-1.
Exploration drilling began separate, previously untested fault block, on this structure in 2005 with the wildcat designated H3N, and was drilled to discovery well, TGT-1X.
To date, seven improve knowledge of the reservoir exploration appraisal wells have been distribution.
The well flowed at a combined drilled in the TGT field, with an average maximum rate of approximately 8,100 oil and gas flow of approximately 11,300 BOPD.
The first of the two DSTs tested the BOPD from each well.
lower section of the Lower Miocene ILBH Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 15 Review of Operations continued From left to right: Vincent Duignan Deputy General Manager, HL HV JOC Gordon Graham Group Exploration Manager George Hepler Group Technical Engineering Manager 5.2 in a net interval of 37 metres between Company received formal notification in 2,923 metres and 3,003 metres MD.
January 2008 that the Prime Minister of The test flowed at rates in excess of 7,100 Vietnam had granted an extension to the BOPD and 5.9 MMSCFD of gas with no deadline for surrendering the remainder of water.
The second test, in a net interval the Block until 6 June 2008.
This extension of 13 metres between 2,754 metres and was granted to allow the completion of the 2,773 metres MD of the upper section previously agreed active work programme of the Lower Miocene ILBH 5.2, tested on the high potential E prospect.
a tighter previously untested part of the reservoir and produced at approximately The Adriatic XI rig was moved on site 1,000 BOPD and 0.5 MMSCFD of gas.
in the final quarter of 2007 to re-enter the TGD-1X borehole, which had been Efforts to achieve declaration of temporarily suspended at 4,625 metres, commerciality on the TGT field and drill a sidetrack well, the TGD-1XST1.
In January The rig was fitted with high pressure well 2008, the reserve assessment report control equipment, including a 15,000 psi RAR, which is a precursor of an official blow out preventer.
The well kicked off at request to approve the Declaration approximately 650 metres and was cased of Commerciality, was submitted to three times prior to reaching the top of Petrovietnam.
The RAR received approval the high pressure and high temperature from the Vietnam Government in April HPHT section, which was the preliminary 2008.
In August, the HLJOC partners target just above Basement.
unanimously approved the Declaration of Commerciality on TGT.
The Outline TGD-1XST1 ceased drilling in May after Development Plan was submitted early reaching 5,096 metres MD.
Difficulties in the second quarter and was approved were encountered during the course of by Petrovietnam in September.
drilling, including equipment problems on the rig and the associated complexities The target is to obtain formal governmental of drilling high pressure sections.
The approval of the Field Development Plan, decision was made to not drill an being the final hurdle, in the first half of extended Basement section, primarily 2009, with the ambitious target of bringing due to concerns over the integrity of the field on production by mid-2011.
We the well bore and also the difficulty believe this ambition is achievable given and anticipated time and expense the existing infrastructure in the area and of deepening the hole.
The well was the extensive appraisal programme that therefore plugged back to 4,820 metres has been carried out on the TGT field to MD prior to conducting two DSTs in date.
Approval of the development area the HPHT Oligocene interval.
will trigger full working interest payment contribution from Petrovietnam.
The first DST was completed in June and a discovery was declared on TGD-1XST1 Te Giac Den TGD after the test flowed gas and condensate Whilst the TGT field was undergoing to surface, establishing the presence of a appraisal, exploration drilling continued working hydrocarbon system.
The second elsewhere on Block 16-1 after the DST, completed in July, recovered black 16 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 17 oil, condensate and gas, indicating the TGT field.
The documentation required for Review of Operations the formal approval by the Government of presence of oil with similar qualities to that continued Vietnam has been submitted.
The well encountered approximately 120 metres of good oil and Upon receiving final governmental approval gas shows in a combined gross interval of the appraisal areas, which is expected of 570 metres.
Permeability and porosity by the end of the first quarter of 2009, were preserved and compared favourably work will commence to reprocess the with pre-drill estimates.
The test was 3D seismic over the HPHT area in order hampered by apparent limitations of the to identify the optimal location for drilling perforations, which had to penetrate two an appraisal well in 2010.
The well design casing strings and associated cementing.
and drilling programme will also be revised Additionally, significant downhole damage Proceeds on Yemen sale to allow a better evaluation of each of the sustained during drilling and preparations hydrocarbon bearing formations.
for completion precluded recording meaningful sustainable flow rates from Voi Trang VT either test.
As planned, the well was $438.5m In January 2009, the Company was plugged and abandoned and the Adriatic notified that Petrovietnam had approved XI rig was moved to the TGT field to drill the application for the VT appraisal area the TGT-7X appraisal well on the H3 based upon an earlier discovery.
award is conditional upon a successful RAR of the commerciality of the previous In January 2009, the Company was discoveries in the awarded area.
The VT notified that the application for the TGD appraisal area encompasses the discovery appraisal area had been approved by well and several adjacent leads and covers Petrovietnam.
The TGD appraisal area an area of approximately 100 square encompasses a 150 square kilometre kilometres.
The RAR on the VT appraisal area, including the HPHT discovery well area is anticipated to be completed by TGD-1XST1 on prospect E and the analogous E South Prospect, and the end of the second quarter of 2009. borders the southern boundary of the Key Performance Indicators 2008 2007 2006 Production bopd 4,464 6,316 6,766 Total proven and probable reserve additions mmboe 25.0 2.6 41.8 Proven and probable reserves mmboe 144.1 160.9 160.6 See the Five Year Summary on page 73 for definitions.
18 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financials Business Review Financials Financials Thailand SOCO Thai will receive an amount equal to one dollar for each barrel of proven The Bualuang oil field is located in Block VIETNAM reserves over 10.4 million barrels.
At a B8 38, offshore in the Gulf of Thailand.
later date, the joint venture partners plan SOCOs 99.93% owned Thailand to test the remaining potential within subsidiary, SOCO Exploration Thailand Block B8 38, including the undrilled east Co. Ltd. SOCO Thai, holds a 40% flank of the field as well as analogous interest in the Bualuang field after farming THAILAND THAILAND structures elsewhere in the production out 60% of its 100% interest.
Transfer of interests earned and operatorship to the farm-in partner Oil production commenced on 27 August are subject to approval of the appropriate 2008 from well BA-05.
After a period regulatory authorities of the Government of multi-rate testing of the well, other of Thailand.
producing wells were sequentially brought on stream over the subsequent days.
In total, six development wells, five producers and one water injector, have been drilled.
Crude oil is processed and stored in a floating production storage and offloading facility FPSO prior to onward sale.
Work is currently underway to increase the water handling capability of the FPSO to allow the field to reach targeted production levels.
Under the terms of the farm-out, the farmee was designated the technical operator of the project and will engage an independent reservoir engineer to perform an analysis of the proven reserves contained in the Bualuang field.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 19 sections located in water depths ranging Republic of Congo Brazzaville Review of Operations up to 115 metres and covers SOCOs interests in Congo Brazzaville continued approximately 265 square kilometres.
are held through SOCO Exploration and Previous exploration activity on the Block Production Congo SA SOCO EPC, has resulted in some oil discoveries.
which is held through the Companys 85% A 3D seismic acquisition programme owned subsidiary SOCO Congo Limited.
Marine XI Democratic Republic of Congo The Marine XI Block is located adjacent Kinshasa DRC to the coast in the Lower Congo Basin, CONGO SOCO DRC Limited, the Companys 85% offshore Congo Brazzaville, in shallow OF THE owned subsidiary, holds 99% of SOCO waters with depths ranging up to 110 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Exploration and Production DRC Sprl metres and covering approximately SOCO E&P DRC which holds the 1,400 square kilometres.
Groups interests in the DRC.
In March 2008, SOCO EPC entered ANGOLA Nganzi Block ANGOLA into an agreement to farm-out an 8.5% The Nganzi Block covers 800 square interest from its 37.5% interest in the kilometres, onshore western DRC.
SOCO Marine XI Block to Petrovietnam E&P DRC is the designated operator with Exploration Production Corporation Ltd. an 85% working interest.
Cohydro, the SOCO EPC remains as operator with a state owned oil company, holds the 29% working interest in the Block.
The production assignment of interests is subject to the sharing contract PSC over the Nganzi approval of the appropriate regulatory Block became effective on 12 April 2008 authorities of the Government of Congo after receiving final approval through Brazzaville, waivers of any third party a Presidential Decree.
preferential rights and certain obligations of Petrovietnam.
The remaining interests are held by the national oil company, Preparations for the acquisition of 360 Socit Nationale des Ptroles du kilometres of 2D seismic were carried Congo SNPC 15%, Africa Oil and out at Kipholo and Lukula.
The seismic Gas Corporation 10%, Raffia Oil SARL campaign commenced in July and was 18.75% and a subsidiary of Lundin completed in October.
During the year, pre stack depth migration Other Blocks processing was carried out on the In March 2008, SOCO E&P DRC entered data acquired in the 2006 3D seismic into a new PSC with the Government of programme to better image the pre-salt the DRC, Dominion Petroleum Limited structure.
SOCO EPC is currently finalising Dominion and Cohydro, to acquire the terms of a rig contract for a multi-well exclusive rights for hydrocarbon drilling programme that is expected to exploration on Block 5, located in the commence in the third quarter of 2009. southern Albertine Graben in eastern DRC adjacent to the border with Uganda Marine XIV where there have been recent discoveries In September, the Company announced in the same basin.
that SOCO EPC had entered into a farm-in agreement to acquire a 29.4% working The Block has an area of 7,105 square interest in the Marine XIV Block, offshore kilometres, including part of Lake Congo Brazzaville, from PA Resources Edward.
SOCO E&P DRC holds a Congo SA PA Congo.
Regulatory 38.25% participating interest in the PSC approval from the Government of Congo with Dominion, as operator, holding a Serge Lescaut Brazzaville was received in March 2009.
46.75% interest and Cohydro holding the General Manager Africa Region SOCO EPC became the operator of the remaining 15% interest.
The first phase Block, with PA Congo retaining a 12.5% of the PSC has a five year span, during interest and SNPC holding a 15% carried which SOCO and Dominion will carry out interest.
The remaining interests are held geological and geophysical work, acquire by fellow farm-in participants and SOCOs at least 300 kilometres of 2D seismic data Marine XI joint venture partners, Raffia Oil and drill two exploration wells.
SARL 21.55% and a subsidiary of Lundin Petroleum 21.55%.
An aeromagnetic and aerogravity survey was conducted over Block 5 in July and The Marine XIV Block is located in the the results are currently being reviewed.
Lower Congo Basin in shallow water, Final approval of the acreage award is adjacent to the Companys Marine XI pending a Presidential decree.
Block and will complement SOCOs activity, both operationally and technically.
The Company has a memorandum The Block comprises three discontinuous of understanding as a precursor to 20 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financials Business Review Financials Financials equipment underwent debottlenecking negotiating a PSC on a large interior block to maximise throughput, alongside the in the DRC.
Interests in this block are not addition of new process equipment.
final until the PSC has been signed and a Presidential decree issued.
In April 2008, the Company completed the sale of its wholly owned subsidiary, Angola SOCO Yemen Pty Limited SOCO SOCOs 80% held subsidiary, SOCO Yemen, for a cash consideration of Cabinda Limited SOCO Cabinda, approximately $465 million, to Sinochem holds a 17% participating interest in Petroleum Limited, a Chinese oil and gas the production sharing agreement PSA company.
SOCO Yemen held a 58.75% for the Cabinda Onshore North Block.
equity interest in Comeco Petroleum, Inc.
The Angolan state owned oil company, which held a 28.57% direct interest in Sonangol P&P, holds a 20% interest in Block 10 of the East Shabwa the PSA and is operator, with Interoil Development Area in Yemen.
The East holding 21%, Teikoku Oil Co. Limited Shabwa joint venture is operated by 17%, Angola Consulting Resources 15% TOTAL E&P Yemen under a production and ENI Angola holding the remaining sharing agreement with the Government interest 10%.
Activity has been suspended pending a review of the security situation.
It is now expected that a seismic acquisition programme will begin in the second quarter of 2009.
The programme comprises approximately 1,300 kilometres of 2D and 100 square kilometres of 3D seismic.
Yemen On 12 January 2008, production from the East Shabwa concession reached the 100 million barrels milestone.
In the first two months of 2008, both water injection and gas reinjection into Basement was at capacity with water injection rates of approximately 50,000 barrels of water per day, with an increase in capacity expected thereon.
Pressure surveys confirmed pressure maintenance in both the north and western sides of the Kharir field and no significant water breakthroughs.
YEMEN Several Basement wells were temporarily shut-in to allow for repressuring of the reservoir in order to shrink the gas cap in the western part of the field.
In addition, activity to increase the production handling capacity of the processing equipment was ongoing and existing Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 21
