Weir Minerals Division - Operational Review Scot Smith Divisional Managing Director Weir Minerals Division with 2008 revenue of 742m is the industry leader in the design, supply and support of aggressive high wear products for the global mining, flue gas desulphurisation and oil sands industries Operating profit Revenue Order Input 114.5m 742m 805m Up 39% Up 30% Up 23% Australasia & Indo-Pacific Weir Minerals ambition to be the customers supplier of choice is driven by world class operations, leading Regional input increased 22% to 165m while revenue increased 22% products and technology.
Recognising the need to to 154m.
respond to the changing geographic profile of the The Australasia region includes five businesses, the largest being the global mining market, Weir Minerals continues to Australian based operation in Artarmon, Sydney.
The region is progressively developing its portfolio of activities to include operations in China and invest in growing its presence in the emerging regions India.
The addition of Weir Multiflo late in 2007 provided a further of South America, Asia and the Former Soviet Union.
avenue for expansion and extended the divisions product offerings The acquisition of Warman in South Africa further into dewatering applications.
complements the divisions geographic expansion initiative and provides a strong foundation for Australia growth in developing markets.
During the year, there were significant orders for new project capital Minerals posted another year of excellent progress equipment including the award of a joint bid between the Australian and Netherlands businesses for BHP Billitons Worsley Alumina project with significant gains in input, revenue and profit in Western Australia.
The expansion will increase production by 30% when compared with 2007.
Input increased 23% to and is due to come on line in the first half of 2011.
805m 2007: 656m, with significant growth across The Australian business was also successful in securing two large orders all regions.
Revenue at 742m was up 30% 2007: for the Ramu Nickel project in Papua New Guinea.
The project is a new 570m, while operating profit increased 39% to mine which is due to commence production in 2010 and is expected 114.5m 82.3m.
The principal market for the to produce 33,000 tonnes of nickel and 3,200 tonnes of cobalt over a business remains mining, which accounted for 20 year mine life.
During the year, spares Following the Groups reorganisation, the expanded service and mill liner and aftermarket services represented almost 51% operations were successful in winning a complete mill liner system for the of the divisions revenue.
Pasqua Lama project in Chile.
Multiflo, which was acquired in the second half of 2007, is now fully integrated and adds an important component Growth in revenue reflects strong levels of activity in to the divisions mining portfolio.
global mining markets as well as the benefits of the divisions emerging markets strategy and entry into China and India specialised areas of the power generation and oil 2008 saw ongoing development in Suzhou, China, with an integrated sectors.
The ongoing spares stream from the existing foundry, machining, assembly and test facility.
Weir Minerals India was installed base and addition of Warman provide a recognised by the award of a commendation for business excellence platform for further developments in 2009 and beyond.
and an award for best practice 5S housekeeping standards from the Confederation of Indian Industry.
9 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Operational Review Europe, Middle East & Africa In 2008, the region delivered a further year of strong input and revenue growth from its core mining and minerals processing sectors.
Input increased 32% to 284m while revenue increased 61% to 265m.
The region includes six businesses the UK, France, Netherlands, Russia and Africa and now includes Warman which was acquired in March 2008 1.
Weir Warman 14AHF horizontal froth and brings with it a considerable installed base of product together with pump used for dense slurries being a high level of customer loyalty.
The acquisition increases market inspected before leaving the plant.
presence in sub-Saharan Africa and the integration continues to 2.
Weir Minerals Isogate valves ready proceed ahead of expectations.
for delivery to a mine site.
The European and South African markets delivered year-on-year growth 3.
Weir Minerals Netherlands massive and our focused development strategy for the Former Soviet Union and Geho pumps used in Vale's bauxite the Middle East also contributed to strong growth in the region.
mine project in Paragominas, northern Brasil.
The positive displacement pump business in the Netherlands delivered 4.
record orders in 2008 and revenue grew considerably to 104m 2007: 5.
Fitting Weir Minerals equipment at 75m.
This business is geared to large capital projects and secured a Antofagastas Los Pelambres copper major bauxite transportation project in Brasil and a project to transport mine in Chile.
hot bauxite slurry at the Wenshan alumina plant in China.
The UK business delivered another year of considerable progress with growth in input, revenue and profits.
During the year, we were proud to receive the Queens Award for Enterprise in recognition of significant growth in exports.
North America During 2008, North American input increased 24% to 236m while revenue grew 20% to 209m.
The North American region comprises six businesses dedicated to mining and minerals processing, the Canadian oil sands and flue gas desulphurisation for coal fired power plants.
Both the Canadian oil sands 12 and flue gas desulphurisation markets were strong contributors to revenue growth.
Spare parts and service in these aggressive applications is expected to increase proportionally in future years as a result of the growth in the installed base.
During the year, we completed an expansion to our Madison, Wisconsin facility responding to market successes in mining, flue gas desulphurisation and the oil sands.
The Hazleton business, which produces downhole pumps, was selected as a finalist for the Industry Week Plant of the Year Award.
Weir Lewis, a market leader in phosphate pumps, recorded another excellent year, on top of a very strong 2007.
South America 34 In 2008, South American input increased 4% to 119m while revenue grew 9% to 115m.
Mining and minerals processing continue to be the primary activities with focus on copper, gold, iron, zinc and bauxite.
Weir has a unique position in the region, being the only company with comprehensive manufacturing plants in Brasil, Chile and Peru.
The largest growth came from new mining project activity, primarily in Brasil and Peru coupled with further progress from the regions service activities in Chile and Venezuela.
The region boasts some of the largest and most sophisticated pipelines in the world where Weir Minerals remains a leading player, supplying positive displacement pumps from the Geho range and service support to pipeline operators, who often move mine slurries hundreds of kilometres.
The Chilean operation continues to develop a commanding position in mill circuit projects and secured the pump and cyclone contracts for the Anglo American Los Bronces and Collahuasi copper mines in Chile.
A major contract was also secured to supply upgraded equipment to Antofagastas Los Pelambres phase two expansion.
The Brasilian business was successful in leveraging the Groups global product portfolio and its market position will be further enhanced by our investment in a new purpose built facility scheduled to come on-stream progressively from 2009.
The service operations continue to grow in capability and geographic reach.
Ongoing investments in Peru and Venezuela position the division well for future developments in these resource rich regions.
Flexibility and operational excellence, along with the ability to respond quickly to growing demand, are paramount to continued growth.
5 10 Weir Minerals Division - Operational Review Market update Key achievements 2008 2008 was a year of significant commercial and operational success for the Acquisition of Warman which provides a platform in the division and we expect the strengthening of our market and geographic strategically important sub-Saharan mining market.
positions to provide a solid foundation as we experience changed market conditions.
Significant facility expansion at Weir Minerals North America delivered on time and on budget.
Original equipment sales represented almost 50% of the divisions revenue in 2008 and are largely tied to the capital spend plans of the Largest order in history of Weir Netherlands for GEHO major miners.
The combination of the tightening of available funds and pumps for the Brasilian MMX pipeline project.
lower commodity prices will result in deferrals in new project spend which we expect to be visible in Minerals order input in the first half Significant contracts for Warman, Hazleton and Multiflo and revenue line in the second half of 2009. pumps for the Canadian oil sands.
The aftermarket business is derived principally from our installed base of equipment, is volume driven and contributes higher operating margins Australian service business increases mill liner orders by 78%.
relative to original equipment sales.
While we expect some of the more Significant new orders for complete range of mill circuit marginal mines to close and production volumes to decrease, this will be offset to some extent by the absolute increase in our installed base equipment for Kazakhstan gold mine.
The acquisition of Warman was completed in March 2008 and provides the division with a high quality operation in the sub-Saharan African market.
The addition of this well-established business with a considerable installed Sector input breakdown base will provide a further avenue for growth in the year ahead.
In summary, the global economic downturn has added significant Naval & Marine Water & Wastewater 2.9% 0.1% uncertainty to a wide range of industries which ultimately impact the markets for our products.
We have positioned the organisation to have Oil 6.8% a high proportion of its revenue tied to the aftermarket and services and its geographic diversity and strong competitive position provide a Power platform for industry leading performance.
9.5% General Industrial 10.7% Minerals 70.0% Kevin Spencer, managing director Weir Minerals Europe receives the Queens Award for Enterprise from Dr Ingrid Roscoe, the Lord Lieutenant for West Yorkshire at a ceremony attended by employees and customers.
Geographic input breakdown Middle East & Africa 11.2% North America 25.0% Europe & FSU 13.1% Indo Pacific 14.0% South America 20.4% Australia 16.3% 11 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Steve Noon Divisional Managing Director Weir Oil & Gas Division with 2008 revenue of 280m, manufactures pumps and ancillary equipment for the global oil & gas markets.
The division comprises three operating activities upstream, downstream and the services operations, which are focused on aftermarket activities.
Operating profit Revenue Order Input 61m 280m 289m Up 62% Up 40% Up 62% The upstream service centres have delivered significant improvements in Oil & Gas posted a year of exceptional progress in 2008 safety and operational performance.
Building expansions to accommodate with significant gains in input, revenue and profit due to future growth have been undertaken in Odessa, Texas and Alberta, Canada the full year inclusion of Weir SPM and excellent progress and all 11 service centres have implemented new safety and facility at Weir Gabbioneta and the services operations.
increased 62% to 289m 2007: 179m, with significant Weir SPMs 2008 revenue was positively influenced by a backlog of over progress across all operations.
Revenue at 280m was up US$100m carried over from the high demand in 2007.
In the second half 40% 2007: 200m, while operating profit increased 62% of 2008 revenue normalised to an annual run rate of US$272m.
Upstream represented 56% The outlook for upstream is largely tied to the drilling of gas wells in North of total sales, while downstream contributed 20% and America where gas storage levels, gas prices and North American weather services contributed 24% of divisional sales in the year.
conditions are key market drivers.
The current forecasts indicate 2009 revenues to be up to 30% below the second half 2008 run rate.
Upstream Downstream Weirs upstream business is largely focused on the manufacture of The divisions downstream activities are focused at designing, high-pressure well service pumps and related flow control equipment, manufacturing and selling made-to-order centrifugal pumps to the including valves, chokes, manifolds, swivel joints and connectors which exacting requirements of the API American Petroleum Institute 610 operate in abrasive, high-wear applications in oil and gas drilling and standard.
Products are used predominantly in the downstream refinery extraction markets.
segment of the oil and gas industry.
Future prospects are linked to continued Aftermarket operations include provision of related mobile recertification, investment in and utilisation of refining capacity around the world.
refurbishment, repair and equipment rental services.
Service activities Weir Gabbioneta remains the cornerstone of the Groups downstream include service centres in the United States, Canada, the UK and the equipment supply and has an established position in the Middle East, Middle East.
Productivity and financial performance increased The results for upstream businesses include a full year contribution from significantly on the previous year and we enter 2009 with a strong Weir SPM which was acquired in the second half of 2007.
The business forward order book.
has been successfully integrated and the Weir Production System is fully Weir Gabbioneta products were selected for the supply of pumps for a implemented, including Lean manufacturing, 5S housekeeping standards renewable diesel production plant in Rotterdam, which is expected to and improved infrastructure at all of its service centres.
contribute to a significant reduction in exhaust emissions and will achieve Significant capital expenditure has been invested at Weir SPM in upgrading first production in 2011.
In Singapore, a similar renewable energy plant is the companys facilities to the high standard set by the Weir Group.
In the due to be launched at the end of 2010.
Using palm oil as its base material, Fort Worth principal manufacturing location, the focus has been on the plant is expected to place Singapore at the centre of biofuel production.
improving operating efficiency while creating a safe and productive With a substantially full order book the downstream business remains well work environment.
placed to deliver further progress in 2009.
The high margin aftermarket The division expanded its upstream activities through the acquisition of activities are tied to production volumes and ultimately consumer use.
Mesa for a cash consideration of US$40m.
Mesa was a privately-owned Texas based supplier of gas drilling equipment to the unconventional oil market.
The business has excellent alignment with Weir SPM and Services has exceeded our expectations during the period of ownership.
The Oil & Gas Services operations includes a network of service businesses with capabilities to perform major refurbishment, upgrades and re-rates, repair, turnkey asset management and field service work in the oil and gas markets.
12 Weir Oil & Gas Division - Operational Review The extensive geographic footprint provides rapid customer response Key achievements close to the major oil and gas markets in the North Sea, the Middle East, Western Canada and in the Southern United States where key market Transformation of Weir SPMs Fort Worth production drivers are related to volume and the price of oil and gas.
facilities with significant improvements in lead times Services results improved significantly when compared to 2007 as the and on time delivery.
benefits of restructuring in the UK, United States and Middle East operations came on-stream.
Three new Weir SPM service centres opened in 2008 with two further start ups planned for first quarter 2009.
In the Middle East, significant investment was made in the Dubai operations to increase capabilities and grow our position in the market.
Weir SPM flow sales up 38% versus 2007.
We received recognition as a top tier supplier from BP in Baku where we manage their workshop and maintain critical rotating equipment Weir Gabbioneta input up 35% on 2007 with a servicing the Caspian region.
substantially full order book in 2009.
In July, the division extended its activities in the Caspian region through the acquisition of 75% of Standard Oilfield Services for a cash consideration Mesa acquired, successfully integrated and of US$16m.
The business is located in Baku and supplies downhole exceeding expectations.
equipment and services to the oil majors.
The implementation of the Weir Production System across all service Lost time accidents reduced by 16% versus 2007. operations has provided the basis for productivity improvements and increased manufacturing capacity while broadening the core business capability.
Sector input breakdown Market update The Oil & Gas Divisions outlook is largely tied to the price and volumes Water & Wastewater 0.3% of oil and gas produced in the Middle East, North Sea and North America.
Minerals 0.8% Naval & Marine 0.2% The portfolio of businesses includes extensive aftermarket and service General Industrial 1.7% operations which in 2008 represented more than 56% of the years revenue.
Power 1.8% Weir SPMs outlook is largely tied to US gas prices and the level of onshore unconventional drilling in the North American market.
Our downstream business has sufficient original equipment order coverage to support its volume needs through a large part of 2009 and we are yet to experience any slowing of spares volume.
Oil & Gas 95.2% Geographic input breakdown Australia 0.2% Indo Pacific 6.3% Europe & FSU 12 22.2% North America 46.1% 1.
Pump in assembly at Weir Gabbioneta in Milan, Italy.
A safety iron manifold trailer unit at Weir SPM, Fort Worth.
Weir SPMs main workshop at Fort Worth, Texas.
Middle East & Africa South 24.1% America 1.1% 3 13 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Phil Clifton Divisional Managing Director Weir Power & Industrial Division with 2008 revenue of 223m, designs, manufactures and provides aftermarket support for rotating and flow control equipment to the global power generation and industrial sectors Operating profit Revenue Order Input 18m 223m 271m Up 34% Up 11% Up 29% In the service operations, the lack of spend in new customer facilities has The Power & Industrial Division includes the Groups resulted in higher levels of upgrade and refurbishment of existing power valve operations, a specialist pump business and and industrial assets.
Opportunities in hydro electric upgrade projects substantial service and aftermarket operations in also provide an excellent platform to transfer the divisions European Europe, Middle East, North America, China, India technologies into the North American market place.
In Canada, a third and South Africa.
repeat order for hydro refurbishment was secured from BC Hydro and will be executed in 2009.
The division posted a year of excellent progress with Weir Specialty Pumps supplies pumps and associated equipment to the gains in input, revenue and operating profit when United States municipal, power generation and oil and gas markets.
Input increased 29% to 271m The business increased revenue, margins and operating profit when 2007: 211m, while revenue at 223m was up 11% compared to 2007 and extended its product portfolio through the 2007: 201m and operating profit increased 34% launch of new and innovative products in the year.
The prospects for North America include an extension of aftermarket offerings by capitalising on the existing footprint and the divisions Growth in orders reflected the strength of the Chinese extensive global product portfolio.
The new build product businesses power generation market, a significant power upgrade will continue to develop products and skills to grow their positions in project in Libya and continued strong conditions in the export markets while remaining prepared for substantial medium-term, UK and Canadian service markets.
Original equipment must-have investment in their domestic markets.
represented 44% of the years input while 10% was associated with spares and the balance in Europe aftermarket services.
The European region consists of the original equipment valve operations Weirs geographic reach provides the Power & Industrial in France and the UK and the divisions seven service operations across Division with access to critical markets on a global scale.
Regional input increased 50% to 157m while revenue increased 10% to 116m.
The valve businesses performed well growing input, revenue and profit North America when compared to 2007.
The UK operation collaborated in divisional bids and secured critical nuclear valve contracts in China.
Domestically, the The North American region includes the divisions original equipment valve UK new build market for power generation remains slow with financing operations in Washington, North Carolina and Ipswich in Massachusetts, concerns delaying project approvals.
A growing recognition of the need the specialist pump business in Salt Lake City, Utah and five service for substantial short-term power generation investment remains a prime operations strategically located throughout Canada.
Regional input increased 8% to 106m and revenue rose 10% to 96m.
The French operation continued to benefit from its range of critical safety The valves businesses increased input, revenue and profit in the year valves and secured 26m of new nuclear work in China.
These contracts and gained orders valued at over 20m for critical safety products to be provide a solid revenue stream for the medium-term.
In addition, a five supplied to new Chinese power projects over the next three years.
The year specialist valve service agreement was signed with EDF to cover their North American nuclear new build programme remains slow and funding fleet of French nuclear reactors.
constraints are expected to hold back new investments in the short to medium-term.
The UK service operations performed well with new project work underpinning a substantial growth in input when compared to the prior year.
A six year framework agreement was signed with British Energy for the servicing of pumps and valves.
The 2007 restructuring which rationalised the number of service operations helped fund a workshop expansion at Barton and the new European services engineering centre in East Kilbride, Scotland.
14 Weir Power & Industrial Division - Operational Review Work commenced on an 11m refurbishment of a power station for an iron Key achievements and steel company in Libya which will provide a solid base load in 2009 and 2010.
Significant Chinese power plant orders secure base load revenue.
The divisions future prospects for Europe remain positive with must-have investment for new build becoming a critical community issue and in Multi-million pound power station refurbishment project the interim, the increase in maintenance and life extension spending secured in Libya.
is expected to be an offsetting benefit.
Five year valve service agreement signed with EDF in France.
Developing markets Six year service framework agreement signed with The developing markets include Power & Industrials original equipment and aftermarket operations in China, the Middle East and Africa and a British Energy pumps and valves.
Successful completion of two hydro power overhaul The divisions emerging market approach includes two distinct elements, projects in Canada.
growing our share of the indigenous opportunities and building high quality, low cost and technically competent suppliers to improve New state of the art engineering, project management competitiveness in our traditional markets.
These initiatives are and support centre opened in Scotland.
expected to result in significant future benefits.
New turbomachinery service workshop to maintain The largest operation within the region is the original equipment valve business located at Suzhou, China.
It was acquired in the second half of and refurbish turbine rotors at Barton, England.
2006 and has proved to be a significant conduit for new business awards for products supplied from the French, United States and UK operations.
Going forward, our intention is to increase technical capabilities and develop more customers in the indigenous market while assessing the prospects and returns for expanding activities into servicing the existing Sector input breakdown installed Chinese power generation market.
Minerals The region also includes smaller operations in India, South Africa and the 2.6% Naval & Marine 6.6% Middle East which provide local sales, distribution and aftermarket services to their domestic markets.
These businesses were successful in growing their operational capabilities and market prospects during the year.
Water & Wastewater 7.1% Market update General Industrial The outlook for Power & Industrial remains broadly positive with a global 13.3% need for infrastructure spend supporting a strong medium-term outlook.
Power In 2009, funding availability is expected to delay some new build 55.5% activities but with a corresponding increase in upgrade and maintenance work.
Weir Power & Industrial is supplying safety critical valves to Ling Ao Phase II CPR1000 nuclear power plant under construction in Guangdong Province and owned by the China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group.
One of Scottish & Southern Energy's hydro power stations in the Scottish Geographic input breakdown Highlands upgraded by Weir Power & Industrial.
Weir Specialty Pumps exhibit the 0.4% industry leading range of self-priming Middle East & Africa pumps at the annual Water 8.3% Environment Federation Exhibition.
1 North America 33.1% Europe & FSU 38.0% South America 3.1% Indo 2 3 Pacific 17.1% 15
