Chief Executives Operating Review Introduction The Groups policy of forward selling resulted in the Company holding a strong forward sales position of 594 million on 1 August 2007.
As the events of the last twelve months unfolded, this order book stood us in good stead to weather the initial changes in the market.
From Easter onwards, however, customers cancelled at an increasing rate and our divisional sales teams did well to hold on to sales they had achieved, resulting in a year on year fall in total completions of 14.2% to 6,556.
This number was underpinned by an increasing proportion of social housing where completions rose by 49% to 1,337 homes.
The Group has sold 144 properties to first time buyers through initiatives promoted by English Partnerships and the Housing Corporation.
Private sales fell by 22.5% to 5,219 homes, reflecting the swift change in consumer confidence.
Completions are divided almost equally between the northern and southern regions.
Regional Performance Northern Region During the year, the then nine northern divisions sold 3,348 homes, a decrease from the previous years 4,168 homes.
Of this total, 339 homes, some 10%, were sold to housing associations compared to 431 the previous year.
Overall the average selling price in the north is marginally reduced at 157,000.
The effect of the slowing economy and the erosion of consumer confidence hit our markets in the north much earlier in the financial year with the Manchester and Yorkshire divisions being particularly hard hit.
Conversely, the South Midlands division managed to increase output benefiting from new outlets opening as part of the North Solihull regeneration project.
The West Scotland division maintained output of 500 homes without any exposure to social housing and the West Lancashire division, with an average selling price of only 126,000, continued to build on several developments in and around the Liverpool Pathfinder area which led to the completion of 528 homes, of which some 19% were sold to housing associations.
Earsdon View, Shiremoor, North Tyneside Meridian South, Borough of Lewisham, London 07 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 foundations and road and sewer works.
Approximately 30% of Southern Region production last year used timber frame systems where the price of The Southern divisions sold 3,208 homes, a decrease of only 7.5% timber has fallen by up to 10%.
National agreements with major from the previous years total of 3,470.
This relatively small reduction suppliers should reduce ongoing costs by a further 5 million per was achieved by more than doubling sales to housing associations from annum.
The overall build cost per home, therefore, should continue to 469 to 998 homes.
Primarily due to this increased exposure to social fall, helping, in part, to offset sales incentives currently being offered.
housing, the overall average selling price for the region fell from 191,000 to 183,000.
The Thames Gateway area demonstrated the Overhead Reduction and Company Structure greatest resilience, with the Thames Gateway North division, With little prospect of an immediate recovery, the primary operational established in 2005, virtually doubling volumes to 203 homes.
Its much focus of the Group has changed during the course of the year to cost larger neighbour, Thames Gateway South, also benefited from strong control and cash management.
At the beginning of May, the Group demand, especially from developments in the London boroughs of commenced a redundancy and rationalisation programme which Tower Hamlets and Greenwich, which helped to increase output to resulted in job losses amounting to 35% of the workforce.
majority of these people have, sadly, already left the organisation.
This should result in a net overhead saving of 8 million in the financial Sales Incentives and Cost Control year ending 31 July 2009.
During the year the average cancellation rate gradually increased, finishing at an annualised rate of 26%, a level not previously The number of divisions has been slimmed down from eighteen to experienced.
Sales incentives have therefore been employed on a thirteen.
This now leaves the Group much leaner as most of the regular basis to support the targeted selling rate.
Typically these affected divisions have been amalgamated with adjoining neighbours.
incentives included cash discounts, part exchange and other incentives We feel nationwide coverage has not been compromised and the determined by our divisions.
Mortgage and stamp duty subsidies, for Groups growth potential remains intact.
example, were widely advertised and utilised.
For the second time Bellway continues to focus on cost control and cash management.
buyer, part exchange was a popular sales aid and was used in 10% of Every new release to construct is now assessed centrally on a plot by transactions.
The Group sold 560 part exchange homes during the plot basis and only proceeds if production is matched by sales.
The year and ended it with a stock of 331 part exchange properties valued result of these actions should lead to a reduction in the number of at 40.6 million, after the exceptional write down.
Since the year end, active sites, which presently stands at around 210. the stock has been reduced to 29 million.
Tight controls continue to be operated in relation to the part exchange scheme in these markets.
These incentives have been a major reason for the operating margin falling from 18.7% to 16.1%.
In response to the reduction in workloads, we have seen a curtailment in labour rate increases and in sub-contract tender prices, where recent tenders have fallen by up to 6%, particularly in areas such as Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 08 Running costs of new homes will come down as the industry embraces Land new technology.
During the year 5% of our production incorporated The Group has been cautious over the last twelve months, but some form of renewable energy technology, utilising features such as particularly in 2008 with regard to land acquisition, with very little new solar and photovoltaic panels and biomass heat units.
In Halstead, investment in land with planning permission.
During the year, 5,556 plots Essex, for example, construction is about to commence using air were acquired and land held with planning permission reduced to source heat pumps and a heat recovery system which should reduce 22,500 plots, compared with 23,500 in the previous year.
Land owned, the carbon footprint of each home by about 40%.
Additionally, almost contracted or under option currently awaiting planning permission has 20% of homes built were constructed to EcoHomes standards.
With decreased to 14,400 plots, a fall of 1,400 as we allowed contracts that the imposition of higher gas and electricity bills, the purchase of a new we deemed no longer viable to expire.
The Group has 36,900 plots as Bellway home will certainly reap rewards for our purchasers, as well as part of its short and medium-term holdings.
These holdings exclude long directly benefiting the environment.
term land, representing a combination of greenfield and regeneration opportunities, amounting to around 4,850 plots.
An increasing element of the whole construction process incorporates recycled materials such as plasterboard, timber flooring and lightweight Due to the weaknesses in the market and, in particular, selling prices, the blocks.
All timber now comes from accredited managed sources.
With holding cost of stock has been reviewed.
Whilst markets currently vary, the cost of landfill waste increasing on an annual basis we have, during dependent upon product and geography, selling prices since 31 July the year, recycled almost 2,900 tonnes of plasterboard and, in 2008 have fallen.
This has resulted in a total write-down of stocks of addition, 106,000 tonnes of demolition material has been crushed and 130.9 million, including around 15 million of fees and option costs reused on-site.
already incurred on land transactions that are unlikely to proceed and 3 million in relation to part exchange stocks.
Health and Safety The Group is pleased to report that the number of lost time Environment reportable accidents declined during the year from 48 to 46.
The The grant of planning permission is often perceived by local politicians number of reportable accidents resulting from falls from height declined and communities as damaging to the environment, however, with the from 11 to 8.
The Group is currently enforcing best practice on its grant of planning permission, substantial benefits often accrue which sites by targeting and supporting a nationwide ladder safety campaign.
are not always apparent to the broader community.
During the year, Site based employees, including those employed by sub-contractors, through a variety of legal agreements, the Groups developments will attend regular health and safety meetings to raise awareness on this generate an estimated 17 million of benefits with the majority of its most serious of subjects.
contributions going towards education and sporting facilities.
Other benefits include car clubs, especially in and around London, which aim to reduce the number of car journeys made by residents from each development.
Low Mill Fold, Addingham, West Yorkshire 09 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 10 Demolition treatment Stone crushing and sorting During the year, the Manchester division now part of the North West division received a silver award from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA for the second year running in recognition of its high standards in managing and maintaining health during the year, and safety awareness.
In addition, 93% of employees have now received a Construction Skills Certification Scheme CSCS card and site managers are being trained to NVQ Level 3. we have recycled Customer Care almost 2,900 tonnes At Bellway, we pride ourselves in providing a first class service, guiding our customers through every step of the purchasing process.
The latest independent survey, carried out on a quarterly basis, confirmed of plasterboard and, that 80% of our customers are prepared to recommend Bellway to a friend - a marginal improvement on last years 79%.
The Group must continue to improve its performance in this area and the recent Office in addition, 106,000 of Fair Trading investigation into the housebuilding industry will result in a new customer code being agreed and implemented in the near future.
tonnes of demolition Looking Forward material has been The Group had secured an order book, at 30 September 2008, of 342 million with almost 50% of these sales to housing associations.
There is clearly, at present, great uncertainty regarding future crushed and reused transaction levels, selling prices and profitability.
Therefore, the Groups priorities are to target the sale of stock properties and strictly control on-site.
work in progress and land expenditure, with a view to reducing borrowings from the year end position of 218 million, thus further lowering gearing.
The Group is, and wishes to remain, in a strong position to recommence its organic growth model as and when more normal market conditions return.
John K Watson Chief Executive 24 October 2008 11 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Brooklands, Harold Hill, Essex Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2008 12
