04 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Review of Operations Review of Operations This is a resilient performance in unprecedented global property markets.
Todays results demonstrate the strength of our business model and ability to deliver value for shareholders in both strong and weak markets.
Group Chief Executives review The first is client service, to ensure that we all My third priority is to ensure that, even in these In the most difficult of markets and with remain absolutely focused on and committed difficult times, we are looking to invest for the unprecedented harsh trading conditions, Savills to always going the extra mile for our clients.
In 2008, the focus has been on maximising has achieved underlying pre-tax profits for the In bad times, as well as good, clients want to opportunities from our existing teams and year of 33.2m.
I am very pleased with these be advised by the very best.
They also want investing in new business streams such as results which were earned from our businesses to know that their advisors are part of a wider corporate finance and new markets such across the globe.
These are a testament to the integrated network that provides them withaccess as Belgium and Mexico.
Out of uncertainty robustness and flexibility of the Savills business to market intelligence, contacts and the highest comes opportunity and in weak markets there model, the spread of our business, the quality quality advice.
We must continually listen to our is usually a flight to quality by clients.
We have of our people and the loyalty of our clients.
clients, understand their changing needs in these certainly experienced this at Savills, particularly difficult markets and adapt our services to meet in our Consultancy, Property Management and In 2008, we had to make a number of their requirements.
Valuation businesses globally where clients difficult decisions in respect of redundancies require quality advice and a trusted name on and restructuring.
Whilst we continue to My second priority is to ensure that Savills is well their reports.
We believe this flight to quality actively manage our cost base during 2009 positioned.
In the past, Savills has successfully will continue in 2009 and, across all property and beyond, we will not take actions which seized growth opportunities as and when they sectors due to the strength of the Savills brand could damage our business or limit growth arose, and grown in times of weak markets.
We aim to take market share opportunities when markets recover.
This is how With the world around us changing rapidly, as a result of this ongoing trend.
we ensure that we can best serve our clients we must continually think forward, understand and constitutes real investment in our business.
trends, interpret what these trends mean for Our strong balance sheet and profitable track our clients and adapt our business accordingly.
record will help us to remain the employer of My priorities We must constantly evolve our ways of working choice and continue to attract top quality people Our strategy is laid out in detail on pages 9 to to develop the right structures and systems to in our chosen markets.
My aim, since becoming Chief Executive improve our client service and provide the our businesses and to hire exceptional talent in last May, has been to make sure we stay optimum environment for our talented people areas where we expect to see future growth.
focused on our strategy, continuing to advance to operate in.
We must strive to deliver the our aspiration  Awards highest levels of service to our clients, with in our chosen markets, whilst also continually I am delighted that the quality of our work the greatest efficiency.
monitoring the markets and adapting our and the strength of the Savills brand have services and business model to suit the extreme To this end, in 2008, we established a new been recognised with a number of awards.
conditions in which we now find ourselves.
Group Executive Board GEB which comprises In the recent Business Superbrand table Savills the Heads of our major businesses, the Group has been ranked the number one Superbrand In my new role I have spent much time visiting Chief Financial Officer and Group Company in theRealEstateSector.
Thisisafantastic many of our offices both in the UK and overseas, Secretary, with the aim of ensuring that we have accolade and demonstrates the strength listening to our people and our clients and making a cohesive and integrated management structure of the Savills brand in our industry.
sure we are working as a team cross-selling our and approach.
The GEB is responsible for the services and getting the most from each other.
In Ireland, Savills became the first property agent day to day management of the Group.
It is also I  to win three accolades at the annual Irish Property responsible for making strategic recommendations to ensure we emerge from this recession a Awards.
We were awarded Retail Agent of the to the plc Board and then executing Savills stronger and better business.
year, Investment Agent of the year, and global growth strategy.
This ensures that best Residential Agent of the year.
business practices across our global network In the UK, we won Industrial Agent of the Year, are captured and shared.
It also allows us to Scottish Professional Team of the year, and offer our clients an integrated and international North West Investment Team of the year.
Our platform and consistency of service under Property Management teams also won three the Savills brand.
05 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Review of Operations industry recognised management awards Market outlook Conclusion including an Investor in People IIP accreditation.
During 2008, property, like all asset classes, My first year as Savills Group CEO has, Our Planning and Regeneration team were suffered significant falls in value across the world.
undoubtedly, been a very challenging year.
named Planning Consultancy of the Year by However, as we enter 2009, we believe that These results demonstrate that we have the Royal Town Planning Institute.
All these these significant falls in values, coupled with a flexible business model that can deliver awards demonstrate the very high quality of dramatic falls in sterling against most major value for shareholders in both strong and our teams across the country.
Further awards currencies, will provide an interesting and exciting weak markets.
are detailed in Our Responsibilites on pages buying opportunity for some investors, particularly With the outlook remaining uncertain, we 26 to 29. international investors, which may see 2009 as anticipate a difficult year ahead.
However, a unique opportunity to invest in UK property.
People and culture the strength of our balance sheet, the diversity If we are to achieve our aim of being the global However, due to the continuing lack of bank of our business streams and the quality of our real estate advisor of choice in our chosen debt finance and forced sellers in the market, people mean we are well positioned to ride out the markets we must ensure that our unique and scarcity of high quality investment grade downturn and then deliver controlled, sustainable Savills culture endures and that all of us product in the UK, we believe that the volume long-term growth for our shareholders.
at Savills share a common set of agreed of transactions in 2009 will be significantly lower We remain alert to the challenges ahead and core values.
On pages 26 and 27 we have than in recent years.
In Europe property values will continue to focus on cost discipline, prudent summarised what I believe those values have not fallen as far and as quickly as in the capital management and, most importantly, to be.
It is important that these core values UK with the result that there remains a mismatch providing the very highest service to our clients.
are agreed upon and nurtured throughout between vendors expectation on price and the business.
A key focus, as always, is to retain and attract Until this gap is reduced, transaction volumes the best individuals in all our chosen markets.
in Europe will remain low.
In order to provide better career progression In Asia due to the volatility of their markets there for our people in the UK, we have launched is a considerable reluctance from investors, Jeremy Helsby the Savills Leadership Programme.
Through particularly international, to commit to property Group Chief Executive this we will identify and develop our future acquisitions.
However, these markets will soon leaders through an inspirational training and Find out more represent buying opportunities for experienced leadership programme to ensure that Savills local buyers, many of whom are private and Marketplace Pages 06-08 strengths and culture continue in the future.
Strategy Pages 09-11 Our people recognise the attractions of working During 2008 we continued to invest in our KPIs Pages 12-13 at Savills and we are delighted that, for the capital markets teams, particularly in Europe, second year running, Savills has won The Times and we intend to maintain these teams Graduate Recruitment Awards, Best Property throughout the downturn to ensure that we Employer prize.
This is in addition to being the are in the best position to advise our clients Target Property Employer of Choice for three when markets improve.
This is an important achievement, and we take great pride in the fact that Savills is a destination of choice for so many graduates.
