14 Operations review Nordic Key performance indicators 2008 2007 Revenue h 24% 10% 51 3,500 Adjusted operating profit h 17% 7% Number of plants Number of people Denmark Adjusted operating margin x15.7% 16.6% we operate we employ Organic revenue growth x 4% 7% Sweden Management retention h 95% 91% Norway Growth before exceptional items and amortisation of customer contracts and intellectual property rights.
Finland Operating brand in the Nordic region Baltics Christian Ellegaard, Regional Managing Director benefiting from strong market positions Business objectives Achievements in 2008 Priorities in 2009 k Growth of 4% in 2008 for the region k Pricing structures based on customer Delivering organic profitability k Like for like sales growth of 15% in new revenue growth Baltic States k Prioritising our sales effort on the most stable market segments k Norway growth of 15% k Capturing opportunities in resilient k Change in segment mix has improved and growing market segments such the margin in Denmark, Sweden as community services and Norway k New garment and mat plant opened k Promptly responding to changes in local Maintaining in Finland.
Exited at linen operations markets and economies operational efficiency k Bergen plant in Norway opened August k Maintain operational exibility 2007 now operating at normal capacity k Continue successfully implementing k Managing higher revenue volumes without CL2000 production line increases in textile investments k Sprinkler system investment in k Continued investment in re Maintaining Eskilstuna, Sweden protection systems health and safety k significant improvement in health k Continued focus on reducing the number as a priority and safety management systems in of health and safety incidents the Baltic countries Workwear Facilities Hotels and restaurants Healthcare Sales and production 15 Our Nordic region covers the country operations in Denmark, Sweden Workwear revenues while our Healthcare and Facilities businesses including our direct sales business Bjrnklder, Norway and Finland.
Hotels have also seen lower volumes, In January 2008, we acquired textile maintenance businesses in the as expected.
Baltic countries of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
We are market Bjrnklder is our direct Workwear and protection equipment leading across the region as a whole, with 51 plants and nearly supplies business with a strong brand and revenues of approximately 3,500 staff.
It has a network of 24 retail outlets in Sweden.
There was Revenue in our Nordic region increased 24% to 326.5 million strong growth during the first half of the year which, although it 263.8 million with adjusted operating profit up 17% to reduced in the second half, helped drive an increased operating profit 51.2 million 43.8 million.
At constant currency revenue grew 9% for the year.
Organic revenue growth excluding Our Norwegian business had a record year as clear leader in the acquisitions was 4%.
In our more developed textile markets of growing Workwear and Facility market.
The Bergen plant which Denmark, Sweden and Norway our operating margin increased by opened in 2007 is operating at good capacity utilisation and saw 0.5% in 2008 with an increase of 1.5% in the second half, as the particularly strong growth of above 20%.
Overall we saw organic expected benefit of salesforce investments began to be realised.
growth of 15%, which contributed to adjusted operating profit In addition, we increased our margin for the year in each of these and margin improvements.
We made good progress with our mat markets individually.
The decrease of 0.9% in the total margin for the offering and made an acquisition in washroom services, broadening region reected our investment in Finland and the Baltics countries our service base.
where we incurred losses in the start up and integration phases, but where profitable growth opportunities exist.
We continued to develop our business in Finland, opening our new Helsinki plant in December, which will be the base of our operations In Denmark, we advanced further with a strong performance, in Finland.
As expected, we incurred losses during this start up phase.
delivering good organic growth in our higher margin Workwear and During the year we entered into agreements to dispose of the final Facilities markets.
Our Workwear business has a strong position in part of our at linen business in 2009 and the focus of the business public services, pharmaceutical and food industries and should be will now solely be on the Workwear and Facilities markets.
relatively defensive in the current economic conditions.
In Hotels we continue to work towards a lower cost operation and we completed In January 2008, we entered the Baltic region with our textile service the construction of a new hotel linen plant, which consolidated the operations.
We are pleased with acquisitions of mat companies in production of two older plants.
We were able to realise cash from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania where underlying sales growth is around the sale of the existing sites.
This will help us in managing the 15%.
Now fully integrated into the group, these companies will form lower volumes we are seeing in this market at the moment with the base for a broader product and service offering at the right time improved efficiency.
In Sweden, we made further progress making bolt-on acquisitions in We invested 46.9 million in new acquisitions, primarily in the first the early part of the year to strengthen our overall market position.
These investments have brought new profitable We developed new market areas, such as local community services customer contracts, provided useful additional capacity and have whose staff provide care services to people at home and new further consolidated our leading market positions, particularly in concepts such as washable shoes.
However the local economic Denmark and Sweden.
In addition, the investments allowed us to climate worsened in the second half of the year in the manufacturing enter new Baltic territories with profitable growth opportunities.
sector of the economy, which is significant for our Swedish Workwear We believe there will be opportunities for further bolt-on acquisitions business and where we have a strong market position.
We have but we are particularly cautious on timing and pricing in the already seen the impact of reduced employment levels on our current environment.
Installation of a mobile unimat Integrating acquisitions in the Baltics The Nordic Ecolabel The Swan Our Swedish business provided the first Following the acquisition of two companies November 2008 five of our Danish unimat system built into a mobile unit.
in Latvia in February 2008, the newly laundries were awarded the Nordic Ecolabel The customer has limited space in its acquired business was able to novate over The Swan, awarded to those promoting building but wished to take advantage 4,000 mat contracts in just six months, low energy, water and chemical of the automatic distribution of garments.
streamlining the business for more efficiency.
consumption, including no or limited use Our Latvian mat business is market leader.
of potentially harmful chemicals or textiles.
