Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information operating review 11 Fig.
01 Renewal book ratings relative by segment % 300 250 200 150 100 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Specialty Property Marine & Aviation Liability Whole account ranging from financial institutions to terrorism also eased.
Market environment Much of the competition comes from local markets or from Market structure offshore centres such as Bermuda which have been able to During 2008 75 syndicates run by 46 managing agencies attract capital and where barriers to entry are low.
Lloyds had an overall 2008 premium capacity of 15.9 billion.
Novaes 2008 capacity of 360.0 In the UK regional market in which NICL operates pricing million is therefore equivalent to a share of around 2.3% and also came under sustained pressure.
Many carriers operating ranks Novae fourteenth in terms of Lloyds 2008 managed in this market have large regional infrastructures whose capacity.
The Lloyds market is extremely broad and there overheads have to be met even if the business written is not are a number of classes of business in which Novae does pro table.
There have been repeated instances during 2008 not operate.
In many of those areas where Novae has chosen of competitors in the UK regional market cutting rates to operate its market share is 10% or more.
aggressively in order to protect market share.
NICLs principal area of focus is UK medium and smaller These market conditions were further complicated by events premium liability business.
The aggregate market premium in September and October, which saw signi cant losses from currently generated in respect of these classes is estimated hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico and the USA, to be over 6.5 billion a year.
a deterioration in economic conditions, extreme stress in the financial markets and the widely-reported dif culties of a Rating and the competitive environment major competitor.
Although there is growing evidence that Around two thirds of the Groups business is in liability these events are producing a hardening market in 2009, in classes and the balance in property lines.
As a result Novaes the short term market dislocation and uncertainty presented business mix differs from that of most of its listed peer some dif culties in assessing risk.
group companies, many of which are property-orientated.
Over the course of 2008 the overall rate reduction across the Rates peaked in the liability classes in 2004.
In contrast entire book of business written was around 6%.
On Specialty many property classes bene ted from rate hardening lines the reduction was around 7% and for each other following US windstorm losses in 2005.
exposed property classes peaked in 2007 see gure 01 above.
Claims management The resilience of many property lines and the absence of After several years of benign claims experience, activity levels signi cant losses in 2006 and 2007 attracted fresh capital picked up during 2008.
Signi cant loss events included the into the industry.
This in turn increased competitive pressure British Airways 777 hull loss at Heathrow in January and the on pricing, terms and conditions across virtually all segments Spanair loss in Madrid in August.
However, these losses were of the market.
Pro tability in many liability classes, which subsequently overshadowed by property and energy losses had not bene ted from the post 2005 rate hardening, was from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in September.
close to break even by 2008, although reserve releases were attering reported pro tability.
As well as these event-driven claims there is also an increase in claims activity arising from the ongoing disruption in In the Groups Lloyds business, pricing of large international capital markets.
Three distinct categories of loss event can liability risks came under particular pressure in 2008.
Claims be identi ed: in ation and looser terms and conditions eroded rate adequacy.
The professional indemnity subscription market Sub-prime and other directly related losses, primarily has attracted particular attention, but rating in other areas in the USA www.
com 12 operating review | continued Losses arising from the consequential dislocation The number and value of reserves within the Discontinued in global capital markets Business Unit continues to fall.
Four of the 19 major liability reinsurance contracts as well as a considerable number of Losses in other areas, for example related to reducing smaller contracts have been commuted, and further values in the UK property market commutation opportunities are being considered for 2009.
Sub-prime losses have, as expected, turned into a major Although the US court system has failed to make progress event.
On an industry-wide basis over 400 claims or in resolving litigation surrounding the collapse of Enron, in noti cations of circumstance were estimated to be the fourth quarter there was progress towards a negotiated outstanding by December 2008.
The great majority of settlement of the investment banking laddering losses.
these are focused in the US liability market.
Novae withdrew Security rating from the US liability reinsurance market in 2002 and Given continuing turbulence throughout 2008, financial dramatically cut back its direct exposure in 2004.
As a result strength and rating have become critical factors for insurance the Groups exposure to US sub-prime and related claims buyers.
In many cases published financial strength ratings are has been low.
As at 31 December 2008 three claims had the starting point for more detailed counterparty assessment been reserved and a further 10 noti cations of possible by assureds.
The Lloyds market is mutualised through the Central Fund.
During the summer of 2008 the focus shifted to the As a result insurers operating at Lloyds enjoy its overall consequential dislocation in the global capital markets.
Lloyds has ratings from three This led to both outright corporate collapses and rescue leading agencies: A strong, stable outlook from Standard renancings of major institutions.
Although claims activity & Poors: A excellent, stable outlook from AM Best: and is likely to emerge following such events, to date it has A strong, stable outlook from Fitch.
been focused on mainly US institutions.
As a large writer of financial institutions business some level of claims is Novae is also rated separately and these are subject to inevitable, but so far there is no evidence of widespread periodic review by the agencies concerned.
In August 2008 or systemic loss affecting the Group.
AM Best con rmed its A excellent financial strength rating of Syndicate 2007: its Aexcellent financial strength rating Given the deteriorating economic outlook an increase in of NICL: and its bbb issuer credit rating for Novae Group claims activity more generally is likely.
Moodys financial strength rating of Syndicate 2007 started to emerge in the early summer, with an increase in remains A2.
In March 2008 Standard & Poors revised the claims from UK regional professional indemnity business, outlook of its 2 rating from stable to positive.
In December and in particular from solicitors and others involved in the 2008 Fitch released an issuer default rating of BBB for the UK residential property market.
Such claims are likely to Novae Group and an Arating to NICL, both ratings having persist until economic conditions improve.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 13 Regulatory environment In September the FSA undertook a routine ARROW inspection of the Group.
The Group remains committed to building and maintaining a strong relationship with its regulator.
The FSA is routinely briefed on strategic and trading initiatives.
In September 2008 the FSA published Discussion Paper 08 4 titled Insurance Risk Management: the path to Solvency II.
Solvency II is a fundamental review of the capital adequacy regime for European insurers and reinsurers due to take effect in October 2012.
Much of the FSAs current supervisory structure and capital regime, such as internallymodelled individual capital assessments based on explicit con dence levels, are similar to the principles underlying Solvency II.
However, the detailed application of the Solvency II regime will impose additional requirements.
The key components of the Solvency II regime are as follows: Pillar 1: adequacy of financial resources Pillar 2: governance Pillar 3: reporting and disclosure Work in 2009 will focus on further enhancing Novaes internal capital modelling and on using the outputs more intensively in decision-making in areas such as reinsurance buying and asset duration as well as in the core insurance business.
Lloyds is a franchisor rather than regulator but it has quasi-regulatory powers.
Novae participated in a number of ad hoc projects undertaken by Lloyds during 2008.
However, the most important area of inter-action remains Lloyds own capital-setting process, which concludes in November.
com 14 Specialty | The Specialty segment is made up Gross written premium of underwriting units writing claims-made liability % business, primarily for financial institutions, corporate bodies and professional services rms.
45 In addition, the segment contains a number of niche units writing specialist accounts.
Financial institutions | Novae is a market leader and one of the largest providers of financial institutions insurance at Lloyds.
It leads 70% of the business it underwrites.
Specialty 100% level 2008 2007 m m Gross written premium 165.8 168.1 Net premium revenue 124.0 116.9 Net claims incurred 87.6 71.4 Segment operating expenses 41.3 43.6 Pro t attributable to Novae 18.7 16.9 Bloodstock | During 2008, Novae established a new Claims ratio % 70.7 61.0 bloodstock unit.
This unit Expense ratio % 33.3 37.3 underwrites a broad spread Combined ratio % 104.0 98.3 of international bloodstock, livestock and equestrian risks.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information operating review | continued 15 Specialty Specialty remains Novaes largest business segment, Professional indemnity is also an important component of accounting for 45% of gross written premiums in 2008.
It too has encountered very contains areas of historical market leadership, like financial competitive market conditions, as a result of which premium institutions, and newer areas of business, of which the most has been cut back.
Business transacted in the London market recent is bloodstock.
Over two thirds of the income is made an overall pro t but the regional business transacted derived from liability classes transacted on a claims-made by NICL made a loss.
This re ects the determination to face basis.
The balance is derived mainly from shorter tail classes, the harsh realities of this class in the current economic although political risks business can involve an extended environment, epitomised by the decision to withdraw period of claims settlement.
completely from primary solicitors business.
Despite the adverse impact upon income this should help to contain Once again the largest single source of pro t was financial the scale of credit crunch related claims on this account.
institutions business, although its contribution was less than in 2007.
Exposure to US sub-prime claims remains Terrorism is transacted in conjunction with political risks and comparatively low but the wider issue of turmoil in financial credit, bringing scope for cross fertilisation and a combination markets has led the Group to take a cautious assessment of of complementary classes.
The UK trade credit business has the ultimate pro tability of more recent years.
coped extremely well with the challenges posed by a sharp deterioration in the general economic environment and some The other source of substantial pro t in the Specialty high pro le corporate failures.
Political risks continued its segment was medical malpractice business, which is largely pro table record.
While challenging market conditions have led to less income being written than planned, that The blend between well-established areas of prominence and business which has been transacted shows a very healthy areas of more youthful involvement gives strength to Novaes level of pro tability.
Like financial institutions this is an overall presence in Specialty lines.
This strength in diversity is area where Novae has a strong market position.
expected to continue to be evident in the future performance of this segment.
com 16 Property | The Property segment provides insurance Gross written premium and reinsurance cover in the USA and internationally including the UK.
The segment provides coverage % against damage or disruption caused by both 21 natural hazards and man-made events, in addition to re and other perils on a per risk basis.
International Property 100% level direct & facultative | 2008 2007 m m This unit focuses on commercial and Gross written premium 77.0 73.2 industrial property Net premium revenue 56.2 44.2 worldwide excluding Net claims incurred 38.6 17.9 North America.
Segment operating expenses 21.5 17.8 Pro t attributable to Novae 0.8 15.5 Claims ratio % 68.7 40.5 Expense ratio % 38.2 40.2 Combined ratio % 106.9 80.7 Property reinsurance | This unit is dominated by controlled exposure to major US catastrophic events such as Hurricane Ike pictured.
Image courtesy of NOAA Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information operating review | continued 17 Property The Property segment accounted for 21% of gross premiums transacted by the Group.
These were Hurricanes Gustav written in 2008, the same percentage as in 2007.
It is split and Ike, which in icted substantial loss on mainland USA.
broadly equally between reinsurance and direct business.
In November Novae announced its assessment that the likely On direct property good progress has been made in recent overall impact of these events would be around $45 million years in building a geographically balanced account.
The net of reinsurance across all classes of business written.
This reinsurance account is dominated by US exposure, which assessment has subsequently reduced to under $40 million re ects the global distribution of insured property values.
net, of which some $27 million net is derived from the Property segment, roughly three quarters of this coming In the reinsurance unit the emphasis is on transacting from catastrophe reinsurance.
There were no other events catastrophe reinsurance and most business is therefore exerting a signi cant impact on the property reinsurance written on an excess of loss basis.
The only exceptions to account but some lesser catastrophic events, including this arise where catastrophe exposure is written in a different tornadoes, hailstorms and wild res, affected direct property way, for example Japan where some catastrophe protection business in the USA.
has traditionally been written through pro rata treaties.
Consequently the reinsurance account tends to derive In this context the property catastrophe reinsurance business signi cant claims activity only from headline catastrophe still managed to make a net pro t for the year, a very events.
Claims activity on the direct accounts re ects both creditable performance under the circumstances.
US direct catastrophes and individual risk losses, including a sizeable property made a loss but Novaes experience compares element of attritional loss where the business is transacted favourably with many of its competitors.
Helped by a lower impact from ood losses in 2008, the In 2008 two major catastrophe events produced a UK property account recovered to a pro t. considerable number of claims for Property business Image courtesy of Verve Energy www.
com 18 Direct liability | This unit underwrites both primary and excess of loss employers, public and products liability.
It includes a growing book of renewable energy and related clients.
Gross written premium Liability | This segment offers occurrence form liability coverage for both the non-marine and % marine markets.
It operates in the UK and 19 international markets.
Liability has the longest development tail of Novaes business segments.
Liability 100% level 2008 2007 m m Gross written premium 68.2 56.9 Net premium revenue 51.0 41.6 Motor eet | During Net claims incurred 30.6 21.6 2008 Novae established Segment operating expenses 19.2 16.2 a new motor eet Pro t attributable to Novae 10.7 10.0 account, offering motor Claims ratio % 60.0 51.9 insurance in addition Expense ratio % 37.7 38.8 to the liability cover provided by the established Combined ratio % 97.7 90.7 direct liability unit.
Image courtesy of Peter Coombs Alamy Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information operating review | continued 19 Liability This segment accounted for 19% of 2008 gross premium Over time NICL is likely to grow as Novaes platform of income.
This is close to the 20% ceiling set for occurrencechoice for such UK liability business.
However, for overseas form liability business, which has a long tail and is business the Lloyds syndicate is likely to remain the more potentially vulnerable to reserving shocks some time after appropriate route to market, providing the opportunity to risks are written.
Recent growth has come from the access specialist overseas coverholders and bene ting from establishment of two new units.
One is an international the overseas licences which Lloyds possesses.
casualty unit which has enabled Novae to write an increased In due course some SME business in the marine liability amount of overseas business outside the USA, principally unit could also gravitate to NICL.
The decision to buy out in Australia and Canada.
The other relates to eet motor the remaining third party natural names provides increased business, originally through participation in a Gibraltarexibility in this respect.
Nevertheless, there is a sizeable based business but more recently from the establishment component of traditional marine business which will remain of an in-house underwriting team.
This includes risks related to Such business needs to be the subject of a cautious approach the Protection & Indemnity clubs, which can involve small to setting claims reserves.
The results of this are evident in percentage participation on subscription market business, the performance of the more mature marine and non-marine bringing potential exposure to high pro le collision and liability business.
A cautious reserving approach applied to pollution events.
current year business produces a negative result but as All motor business is currently written by NICL.
The experience becomes clearer over time that caution is expected Novae business model for underwriting motor eet business to give rise to the release of reserves and the emergence of involves outsourcing important functions like claims pro t. In 2008 every underwriting year from 2003 to 2007 handling.
This avoids the creation of a large infrastructure inclusive contributed meaningfully to the overall level and maintains exibility to expand and contract scale of pro t. according to market conditions.
Much of the business transacted by both the non-marine A continuation of the pro table development of a conservatively and marine liability units involves SME risks.
Historically reserved Liability segment is again clear in 2008.
Meanwhile in the non-marine market this has been written mainly diversi cation, both geographically and by type of business, through facilities provided by the Lloyds business.
More is creating a better balanced unit capable of growing without recently competitive market conditions have seen the bringing excessive risk concentration.
signi cance of such facilities diminish while NICL has provided the opportunity to write such business directly.
com 20 Aviation reinsurance | Novae leads or plays a major supporting role in the provision of excess of loss protections to the principal underwriters operating in the direct aviation market.
Energy | Novae underwrites a portfolio of Aviation & Marine 100% level 2008 2007 London market upstream energy risks.
m m Marine | Novae underwrites hull, war and cargo Gross written premium 55.9 56.6 risks, in addition to liability covers reported Net premium revenue 41.2 37.4 within Liability.
Net claims incurred 20.9 17.0 Segment operating expenses 15.6 11.5 Pro t attributable to Novae 8.4 13.0 Claims ratio % 50.6 45.6 Expense ratio % 37.8 30.8 Combined ratio % 88.3 76.4 Aviation & Marine | This segment is made up Gross written premium of units providing property and liability coverage % to the international marine, aviation and energy markets.
Much of this business is US dollar 15 denominated, although the domicile of the underlying business is varied.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information operating review | continued 21 Aviation & Marine Aviation & Marine remains the smallest reporting segment a more limited involvement on liability business.
The for Novae accounting for 15% of gross written premiums in account is focused on production rather than exploration, 2008.
Its scale was increased in 2006 by the formation of an while careful selection by type of assured is also key.
energy unit and more recently by the expansion of the hull In 2008, despite some signi cant loss activity, the aviation and war accounts.
The segment is now more broadly based component again contributed a pro t, albeit lower than in with the mix based on 2008 premiums being 37% aviation, 2007.
After two good years, energy business produced a 33% marine and 30% energy.
marginal net loss in 2008, re ecting the impact of Gulf of The aviation component is dominated by aviation Mexico windstorm losses.
However, the unit compares reinsurance, which writes excess of loss protection for a wide favourably with the experience of many other energy range of direct aviation insurers.
While aviation incidents underwriters last year.
Hull business produced a marginal can take several years to settle, they tend to arise from events result in 2008, after producing a healthy pro t the previous that create headline news.
A small space quota share treaty year.
The small specialised nature of the unit means some is also written.
volatility is expected from year to year.
The longer term record is extremely satisfactory.
War once again produced The marine component comprises hull, war and cargo.
Discontinued marine excess of loss business The hull account written is the product of a highly selective also contributed to the overall segmental pro t. approach, including a particular focus on super yachts.
War business is con ned to marine risks.
A more balanced involvement across aviation, marine and energy business provide the basis for satisfactory results over The energy unit is also focused on particular parts of the time while limiting volatility from one year to another.
It is con ned to upstream activities.
Shorter tail property and control of well exposures predominate with www.
com 22 operating review | continued One measure of aggregate exposure is gross claims plus Discontinued Units reinsurance recoveries as a percentage of shareholders funds.
The Discontinued Units are made up of the liability In the last three years the Groups aggregate exposure to the reinsurance or casualty treaty, healthcare and third party Discontinued Units has fallen signi cantly.
2006 it was 118%, being exposure of 282.4 million on The Discontinued Business Unit was formed in 2004 solely shareholders funds of 239.8 million.
By December 2008 to focus on the run-off of these accounts.
A more proactive this had more than halved to 58%, being exposure of management approach together with the increasing maturity 175.5 million on shareholders funds of 300.5 million.
of the underlying business has reduced signi cantly the This has been achieved in spite of the foreign currency risks and uncertainties that these units pose to the Group re-translation effect within the Discontinued Units.
assets and liabilities representing the run-off of these units are almost exclusively denominated in US dollars, the During the last eight years the Discontinued Units have sterling value of which has increased during 2008. resulted in pre-tax financial losses for the Group of almost 300 million, made up as follows: Although the volatility of the Discontinued Units continues to fall and their effect on the Groups financial performance Claims losses and reserve deteriorations diminishes, they retain the potential to give rise to losses.
Additional capital and higher nancing costs Furthermore, supporting the run-off requires capital which lowers the Groups overall return on equity.
There is a strong Claims handling and other costs financial incentive to continue to reduce Novaes residual By the end of 2006 the rate of losses and reserve deterioration exposure to the Discontinued Units.
had slowed sharply, and in 2007 a number of large inwards There are three ways in which the Discontinued Units may contracts were commuted.
Last year the number and value be run off to extinction: of lead claims from 2002 and prior continued to fall.
In the three years ended December 2008: The settlement of individual claims in the ordinary course The population of 2002 and prior year lead open claims from The commutation of contracts with individual cedants Syndicates 1007 and 1241 has fallen by 71% from 6,117 A transactional solution under which a counterparty at 31 December 2005 to 1,757 by 31 December 2008 accepts the liabilities and attaching assets, together The Groups share of gross reserves from the Discontinued with the payment of a fee or receipt of a risk premium Units has fallen by 56% from 325.6 million at 31 December During 2008 discussions were held with a number of potential 2005 to 144.3 million by 31 December 2008 counterparties to establish whether a transactional solution on Progress has also been made in commuting outwards mutually attractive financial terms was possible.
Since 31 December 2005, the given the general increase in risk premium towards the end outwards reinsurance attributable to the reserves of the of the year, and in particular the return on scarce risk capital Discontinued Units has fallen by 67% from 93.4 million sought by counterparties in the face of widespread financial to 31.2 million.
dislocation, the Board decided that such a transaction was not in the best interests of shareholders at that time.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 23 Group can respond robustly and rapidly to possible People staff changes.
Culture and values Corporate culture and values are critical in risk-taking Skills, training and competency businesses.
Turbulence in the financial sector in the last two Further investment in training and competency was made years has its roots, at least in part, in divergence between in 2008.
During the year 124 employees attended a total employees, shareholders and regulators.
Novaes Board places of 351 courses at a cost to the Group of 0.1 million particular emphasis on openness and constructive challenge 2007: 109 employees on 222 courses at an aggregate cost as symptoms of a healthy corporate culture.
directors, both on joining and thereafter, have extensive The Group encourages staff to train for a wide range of contact with underwriters and managers below Board level.
Structured study and exam leave New joiners are instilled with the core values of the Group: are provided to candidates sitting external exams, with courtesy, commitment, initiative and the pursuit of financial incentives widely available on achieving relevant excellence.
Employees are expected to set and perform to quali cations.
Novae employees again featured in the list high standards of business behaviour.
of national prize winners in competitive exams.
Employee engagement The appraisal process has been further re ned.
Annual The Group relies on the engagement of all employees appraisals are now completed in November, with goals set in the day-to-day running of the business.
The Board for the forthcoming year.
Interim appraisals are conducted has endorsed a policy of regular and comprehensive in the summer to monitor progress against targets.
appraisal process has been fide-coupled from the consideration The Group Chief Executive makes regular presentations of annual bonuses.
Remedial help is offered to employees to employees on corporate and financial developments.
who are doing less well than expected.
He also meets all new joiners for a one-on-one meeting Management and development and, in conjunction with other executive directors, hosts Increasing investment has been made in management and regular brie ng sessions with employees.
development both at and immediately below Board level.
The executive directors and senior management operate This serves three aims.
First, in an increasingly complex an open-door regime under which any employee can share regulatory, legal and capital environment, technical development dif culties or concerns, if necessary outside their normal is essential.
Second, deeper understanding improves Novaes reporting line.
resilience from a business continuity perspective.
Third, the training and development of key managers can have Employee pro le important motivational and morale advantages.
During the year 34 employees joined and The focus of such development shifted during 2008.
previous year employee-related topics were the key theme.
More recently, attention has moved on to the regulatory, Low staff turnover is important in providing external capital and accounting implications of IFRS Phase II and continuity and con dence internally, for example with capital Solvency II, both of which are scheduled for introduction providers and regulators.
Of the 47 senior staff in the Group, in 2012.
In addition, senior managers are encouraged to 33 have been employees of Novae for at least three years.
attend role-speci c courses and conferences, where relevant Succession planning remains under constant review for as keynote speakers.
business continuity reasons and also to ensure that the www.
com 24 operating review | continued Fig.
02 Gross premium written by broker audited 2008 2007 Aon Marsh Miller Insurance Services Alexander Forbes Willis Benfield Cooper Gay & Co Heath Lambert JLT Risk Solutions Ballantyne McKeen HSBC Insurance Brokers Novae Service company & Sullivan Rest Rewards Infrastructure The Groups reward structure has four key building blocks: Insurance platforms basic salary and bene ts: pension contributions: annual The Group has two insurance platforms: its Lloyds business, bonus: and long term equity incentives.
which is regulated by the FSA and subject to the franchise and other requirements of Lloyds: and NICL, which is Salaries are generally set at or marginally above peer group directly regulated by the FSA.
Executive directors and other senior managers have, however, had their salaries frozen Day-to-day underwriting, management and oversight are for three years, as a result of which they are in many cases carried out at segment level.
The four ongoing reporting paid below peer group median rates.
Bene ts, which are segments are in turn made up of a number of underwriting available to all members of staff on an equivalent basis, units which have considerable autonomy to achieve their include health, permanent disability and life insurance.
annual business plan within the Groups overall risk framework.
Some units underwrite exclusively for one platform, with an Novae operates a money-purchase pension scheme under increasing number writing across both.
Where relevant, unit which participating employees contribute 5% of gross performance is assessed on an aggregated basis across both salary with Novae contributions xed at 11.0% to 18.5%, the Lloyds business and NICL.
179 employees are members of the scheme, representing 83% of staff.
Figure 02 above shows the contribution by broker to total gross written premium.
All permanent employees are eligible for an annual bonus.
The amount, which is generally set by reference The Lloyds business focuses on large, international risks, to basic salary, is determined by the Groups financial typically written on a subscription basis.
The Lloyds brand, and operating performance and by the achievement of rating and central fund resources are also important in objectives speci c to each individual.
However, the frictional costs of underwriting at Lloyds are high and it is not the platform Employees are eligible to join Novaes Share Incentive of choice for mid-sized and small premium commercial Scheme, under which they may contribute up to 125 business which the Group fide fines as risks with aggregate a month from their gross salary to acquire shares in the premium of under 10,000.
Group: this is matched by an employer contribution of up to 250.
130 employees, or 60%, are members of The Lloyds business operates through Syndicate 2007.
A range of other equity incentive schemes Syndicate has premium capacity for 2009 of 360.0 million are potentially open to all staff.
In 2008 the Group provided 94%, Incentive Plan has made conditional share awards to or 338.4 million, of the syndicates capacity.
Its ownership 80 employees representing 37% of the whole and the will increase to 100% following the purchase of residual 2007 scheme has made awards to 52 employees 24%.
third party capacity of 1.6 million held by 16 individual The Board encourages a meaningful level of personal names and Novaes agreement in January to purchase the investment in Novae shares by employees, particularly right of tenure of a major European reinsurer corporate those in senior positions.
Although that corporate member will continue to have an economic interest in Syndicate 2007 for 2009 and subsequent years of account it will be on a limited tenure basis expiring not later than the 2018 year of account.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 25 GROUP OPERATIONS Fig.
03 Novae Group Structure Novae Group plc 100% 100% 100% Novae Management Novae Group SIP Trustee Novae Holdings Limited Company Limited Limited FSA BUSINESS INACTIVE COMPANIES LLOYDS BUSINESS 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Novae Insurance Novae Underwriting Novae Syndicates Novae Corporate Syndicate Capital Novae Capital 1 Company Limited Limited Limited Underwriting Limited Underwriting Limited Limited 100% mgt 94% Credit Indemnity and Syndicate 2007 Financial Services Limited Active company Inactive non-trading company Managed syndicate NICL was formed primarily to write smaller premium, The strategy is reviewed annually to ensure that it is principally UK, business at lower frictional cost and more relevant and supporting the current and longer term needs ef ciently than the traditional Lloyds process allowed.
NICL continues to have operating advantages over Lloyds Systems and infrastructure are managed internally with all for risks where the Group is willing to provide 100% of the major development work outsourced to third party specialists.
indemnity limit and where coverage, terms and conditions In this regard key partnerships have been established with are comparatively straightforward.
The Group works closely The Group has considered whether a third underwriting with these partners to ensure the effectiveness of its chosen platform in an offshore jurisdiction such as Bermuda, IT solutions and that its suppliers continue to perform at Dublin or Zurich could assist in the execution of Novaes a high level.
Given the current scale of the Groups catastrophe During 2008 a number of important IT and operational business there is limited operational advantage in establishing projects have been implemented.
A major review of claims a third platform.
Furthermore, Novaes ability to use historic and underwriting processes and work ow has been undertaken.
tax losses to offset current and future pro ts from its Lloyds Working with Capita the Group has begun the roll-out of a business limit the upside potential from moving part or all of work ow system for both claims and underwriting.
This will the Group offshore.
These considerations may change over deliver improvements to process, controls and management time but a third platform is not currently a priority.
information and provide a framework to support electronic Corporate structure placing and claims handling.
A comprehensive upgrade of At 31 December 2008, the Group was made up of 11 corporate infrastructure has also been completed.
This will support the entities and one ongoing managed syndicate see gure 03 anticipated growth in electronic means of trading and claims above.
A central infrastructure company employs staff and handling and provide higher levels of availability for the holds the Groups operating assets.
It re-charges the Lloyds Groups systems.
business and NICL for the cost of the inputs such as people For 2009 Novaes commitment to the improvement of and data processing that they use.
working practices will continue by completing the roll-out NICL operates as an integrated insurance entity.
Lloyds of this work ow management system across the Groups requires a separation of function for historical reasons.
In addition Novae will also look to result Novaes Lloyds business consists of separate managing expand this into the purchase ledger area, thereby further agency, service company and corporate member subsidiaries.
In addition data re-keying and duplication in aggregate monitoring is being reduced Four largely inactive companies are retained to preserve or eliminated through better IT integration.
The Group historic tax losses or for other structural reasons.
In addition continues to invest in pricing, capital and management to Novae Group plc, there is one intermediate holding company.
A particular focus will be developing IT infrastructure these systems to deal with the challenge of Solvency II.
Novaes IT strategy is based on the adoption of common standards across the Group whilst recognising the different requirements in the Lloyds and insurance company markets.
com 26 operating review | continued structure.
Monitoring of risk positions is carried out using Risk management information, performance indicators and Risk framework and management stress and scenario testing.
Novaes core business is accepting risk.
Assessing, pricing, managing and mitigating risk is critical to the Groups success.
As well as the formal risk pillars, a range of other forces affect Novaes operational and financial performance.
Novae has delegated oversight of risk management to the Groups Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee meets The insurance cycle quarterly.
The key output of the Risk Committee and its The insurance cycle is used to describe the phenomena of sub-committees is the Groups risk matrix.
The matrix rates rising and falling over time.
The cycle is generally identi es around 125 major risks to which the Group is regarded as being around seven to eight years from peak exposed, which are sorted into nine thematic groups.
These risk groups, either individually or in combination, Because insurance requires risk capital, the availability and map into the six risk pillars identi ed by the FSA and price of which varies over time, the terms and conditions on which form the basis of the Groups capital assessment: which it is written also vary.
Furthermore, because of the delay between writing business and the pro tability of that FSA risk pillar Internal risk grouping business emerging, there is a risk of overshoot or undershoot.
Group risk Group and strategy Insurance risk Underwriting: reinsurance purchase: In practice individual market segments are subject to the claims: reserving conditions in their particular environment as well as the Market risk Treasury and investments general trend of the industry as a whole.
As a result, business Liquidity risk Treasury and investments mix can have a material effect on a rms assessment of the Operational risk Operations: legal and compliance cycle.
Assessing the future direction of rating within a Credit risk Credit risk hardening and softening cycle is a key component in risk control and mitigation.
Delegated underwriting Novae allocates the majority of its risk budget to insurance The London insurance market relies in part on delegating risk.
The effect of writing a liability-orientated book, with underwriting authority to local coverholders with immediate a mean settlement period of three to four years, is that gross access to particular markets.
Under these arrangements assets and liabilities are larger than would be the case for coverholders are usually allowed to bind the insurance entity a property-orientated insurer.
As a result, an element of the within certain parameters.
Premium credit control and risk budget is required to support market and credit risk on adjustment and settlement of claims are also usually scale grounds, although underlying risk appetite in these delegated, in part or whole, to the coverholder.
Because coverholders are able to bind the insurers on behalf Risk appetite is set by the Board.
The absolute level of risk of whom they source business, they introduce issues of control and volatility set by the Board are then used by the Lloyds and con ict of interest.
If handled appropriately, coverholders business and NICL to frame their decision-making.
can be an extremely effective and pro table route to market.
Individuals are charged with monitoring compliance with Conversely, an uncontrolled coverholder can expose its risk limits and reporting back through the governance insurers to unanticipated or poorly priced risks.
Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 27 Outsourcing and operational risk Given recent dislocation in international capital markets, A number of important processing roles have been rating agency assessments are coming under greater scrutiny.
outsourced to third party providers.
This allows Novae to If Novaes rating were to fail to meet the needs of its trading achieve best-in-class processing and without having to scale partners, or were additional capital to be required to up or make additional investments in areas such as IT.
In maintain a given rating for example were the agencies some areas, regulation or market practice effectively requires models to be re-calibrated, the Groups business could be the Group to outsource.
Its key partners include Xchanging signi cantly disrupted.
Insurance Services, external asset managers and IT providers.
Internal Audit To date these arrangements have generally worked well.
Internal Audit, which is staffed internally, reports to the However, managing outsourcing contracts and addressing Audit Committee.
Its work plan is agreed annually by the periodic failures in service levels is an ongoing process.
Audit Committee based on the materiality of individual risks identi ed by the risk matrix.
Controls and mitigations for Regulation the most signi cant individual risks are reviewed annually, Insurance is a regulated activity in the UK and internationally.
with less material items scrutinised on a rolling cycle.
In Novae is subject to direct regulation by the FSA as well as addition, ad hoc reviews are undertaken by Internal Audit oversight by Lloyds though its Franchise Performance as circumstances require.
As a result a signi cant investment of management time is made in maintaining a stable and open relationship Internal Audit reports are presented to the Audit with the FSA and Lloyds.
Remedial action, if required, is monitored within an agreed timeframe.
The volatile investment backdrop and challenging insurance pricing environment, together with widespread institutional Outlook stress in both the insurance and capital markets, are making Insurance conditions the task of regulators more challenging.
A tightening of the Over the course of 2008 there has been signi cant change solvency capital regime, increasing oversight and more active in expectations for the rating environment.
This has several intervention are possible regulatory responses to these events.
causes, ranging from hurricanes and risk losses on property Such actions would increase costs and reduce operational business to the consequences of financial turmoil and falling exibility for businesses such as Novae.
property values on banks and various professions.
There is Rating agencies an awareness that capital lost, whether through investment The leading rating agencies publish financial strength and losses or insurance losses, may only be replaced at penal cost.
credit assessments for Lloyds itself, for the Group as a With heightened uncertainty and greater risk aversion this whole and for NICL.
These ratings are used for a number translates into a greater element of underwriting prudence, of purposes but the most common is to allow buyers of both on pricing and terms and conditions.
In some cases insurance to assess the financial strength of insurance rms change has consisted mainly of abatement of earlier adverse and therefore their future ability to pay.
In other areas more radical change has already been an increasingly important factor in the buying decision.
The momentum is expected to build progressively through the current year and beyond.
com 28 operating review | continued Fig.
04 Premium arrears over 60 days 000 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 J 07FM A M J J A S O N D J 08F M A M J J A S O N D NSL NICL NUL a less abrupt period of change than in earlier cyclical upswings but implies that the harder rating environment may be more sustained.
Other aspects of underwriting discipline are also clearly evident, including stricter adherence to credit terms and attention to acquisition costs.
For example, the value of premium arrears over sixty days was under 0.5 million at 31 December 2008 and remained under 1.0 million throughout 2008 see gure 04 above.
Investment conditions The second half of 2008 saw unprecedented volatility in financial markets.
VIX, a market-traded measure of volatility, increased from an average of 23.4 over the six months ended 30 June 2008 to peak at 80.8 in the second half.
UK base rates fell from 5.00% on 31 July 2008 the date on which the Group released its interim results to 0.50% by March 2009.
Over the same period the Fed Funds rate fell from 2.00% to under 0.25%.
Credit spreads have widened and in many cases appear to be discounting a very severe rate of insolvencies over the short to medium term.
In particular, the credit market is pricing in a signi cantly more severe recession than major equity markets.
The commodity, real estate, hedge fund and private equity asset classes have been adversely affected by the withdrawal of leverage and concern over the depth and duration of the economic downturn.
Under these circumstances, and after extensive debate and consultation, Novae has reaf rmed its bias towards cash and shorter-dated bonds as its chosen asset classes.
However, recognising the incremental income available from investment grade corporate bonds over UK and US government bonds it has shifted its investment focus towards a somewhat higher risk and return position for 2009.
