With one of the largest networks of offices of any We also manage assets on behalf of high net Operating asset management company and over 300 worth individuals and family offices using both review portfolio managers and analysts covering all the proprietary Schroders investment products and major investment markets, we offer our clients external funds.
We provide a full range of private a comprehensive range of products and services banking services including deposit taking, cash 6 7 to meet their investment objectives.
We employ over 2,700 talented people, across Funds under management Europe, the Americas, Asia and the Middle East, by sales channel 110.2 billion operating from 34 offices in 26 different countries, Institutional 54% close to the markets in which we invest and close 2007 53% to our clients.
On behalf of institutional and retail investors, we Intermediary 35% 2007 40% manage a diverse range of equity, fixed income, alternative and multi-asset funds in line with a well-defined investment process.
Private Banking 11% Funds under management 2007 7% 110.2 billion Multi-asset 18% Our strategy Private Banking 11% Long-term thinking governs our approach to investing, developing client relationships and growing our business.
Our goal is to build a firstclass asset management business, diversified by region, product and channel, and to reward Equities 43% our shareholders by growing returns on a sustainable basis over the long term.
To achieve this goal we focus on: Fixed income 13% Alternatives 15% Delivering competitive and sustainable investment performance through a clear We look to build successful, long-term investment process: relationships with our clients by understanding Staying close to our clients: their investment requirements and providing investment solutions, and designing andOperational effectiveness: developing innovative product strategies Being an employer of choice: and that respond to their needs.
Investing in long term growth opportunities.
Investment performance All investment activities are managed within a single division, with a clear aim of delivering performance which meets or exceeds client objectives.
We measure overall investment performance by tracking the percentage of institutional and retail assets which are above benchmark and peer group over a three-year period.
The Schroder Diversified Growth Fund is part of our multi-asset fund range, suitable for both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
It has attracted over 120 new clients in the last two years.
com ukinstitutional Business review Despite unprecedented turbulence in financial We operate from 34 offices markets in 2008, we have maintained our overall level of investment performance.
in 26 countries, close to the Investment performance markets in which we invest and close to our clients.
Above benchmark or peer group 67% 2007 68% Below benchmark or peer group 33% 2007 32% Staying close to our clients We aim to excel in client service and offer partnerships of real value to clients over and above the immediate product we are providing.
By offering a wide range of products and services, we can provide solutions to most investment requirements.
Operational effectiveness Our investment and client service professionals benefit from high quality systems and we continually look for improved operating efficiencies by leveraging our expenditure on information technology.
We meet our infrastructure support requirements through a combination of outsourced and insourced solutions.
Our broad product range across multiple asset classes and a diverse set of clients, requires ongoing development of investment and operational systems, and over the last few years we have invested significantly in upgrading our infrastructure.
Project spend million 06 35.5 07 36.9 08 37.4 We successfully completed an extensive threeWe continually look for year system replacement programme in London in the second quarter of 2008.
The resultant improved operating modern technology at the heart of Schroders IT architecture will allow us to respond to client, efficiencies by leveraging market, business and regulatory demands rapidly and efficiently and is expected to support our our expenditure on business for the next 10-15 years.
A similar project is in progress for our Asia Pacific business.
Our now well-established track record of delivering infrastructure and technology solutions partially contributed to Fitch Ratings recent rating increase to 2 from 2.
We continue to allocate resources to advance our technology to support the launch of new products and the use of new financial instruments.
Being an employer of choice Our people are our most important asset and we have talented employees throughout Schroders.
It is a priority for us to develop our talented people to deliver to their full potential.
We want to be an employer of choice wherever we operate.
In 2008, we undertook a global employee opinion survey to measure employee engagement.
of respondents said that they were proud to be associated with Schroders and would recommend it as a place to work.
As a result of the feedback we received in this survey, we are continuing with a number of initiatives to improve communication with employees, as well as looking at ways to enhance career development and training opportunities across the Group.
More information on our employees can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of this Business Review.
Investing in long term growth opportunities Maintaining a strong financial position is a key part of our strategy, ensuring that we have the financial strength to invest through market downturns.
Business review At 31 December 2008, we had investment capital Our equity products range from single country to Operating of approximately 900 million, with 500 million multi-regional funds, small and mid-cap funds, review available in cash over and above regulatory and funds designed to deliver high alpha an excess operating requirements.
return compared to the market and defensive strategies to reduce market risk.
8 9 We continue to invest in growing our international business, which is well placed to benefit from the Equity funds under management demographic and savings trends in developing 47.9 billion markets.
During 2008, we added to our presence Asia Pacific 31% on the ground with a new office in Dubai to serve our clients in the Middle East.
We have also deployed our capital to make a UK 29% number of complementary acquisitions during 2008: A private client business in Singapore giving Europe 22% us access to this high growth region: The Swiss third party fund management Americas 18% business of Swiss Re which broadens our offering to Swiss institutional clients: and A Securities Investment Trust Enterprise SITE Fixed Income licence in Taiwan which will enable our existing Our global fixed income capability is based on a business in that country to establish an onshore research-intensive, globally integrated, credit and investment and funds capability, in addition macro research capability that supports local to our business distributing offshore funds.
portfolio management teams in North America, Europe and Asia.
We employ fundamental and Investment quantitative approaches to manage aggregate, We maintain a broad product range covering most government, credit and high yield portfolios for asset classes within equities, fixed income and both Intermediary and Institutional clients alternatives.
As a result, we are able to offer worldwide.
The team also works closely with our products which are in demand at different phases multi-asset team to deliver fixed income solutions in the economic and market cycle.
We have 46 for clients with bespoke liability driven mandates.
investment desks covering over 90 products across a full range of asset classes.
Fixed income funds under management 14.5 billion Equities Asia Pacific 16% In addition to our equity portfolio managers and Global 7% analysts in London, we have equity professionals located in Continental Europe, the US, Latin UK 18% America and in nine offices across Asia Pacific.
Europe 22% Americas 34% Australia 3% The 2 rating given by Fitch Ratings to Schroder Investment Management in London is awarded to well capitalised investment management companies with a track record of profitability, where the organisational infrastructure includes strong risk management and internal control functions, which are integrated in the day-to-day portfolio management processes.
com ir Multi-asset Distribution Operating With 20.1 billion under management, our multiInstitutional review asset team has a broad range of skill sets across We work with a diverse range of clients, including different asset classes.
We specialise in providing corporate and local authority pension plans, a consultative, solutions-based approach for government funds, insurance companies, charities 10 11 clients, which diversifies risk more efficiently than and endowments.
We continue to reposition our a conventional balanced mandate of equities Institutional business towards new products as and bonds.
well as building on traditional strengths.
Products such as our Diversified Growth Fund, Liability Our diversified growth strategies are available Driven Investment and Quantitative Equity to both UK and international clients to address Products attracted significant inflows in 2008. their specific multi-asset investment requirements.
Our capabilities also include structured investments Intermediary and liability driven investment through the In our Intermediary sales channel we work Schroders Matching Plus range.
closely with financial institutions and independent financial advisors in designing products which Alternatives meet their clients needs.
Our alternatives business includes property, emerging market debt, commodities and We have grown our Intermediary business in agriculture funds, funds of hedge funds and recent years reflecting the increasing importance private equity funds of funds.
At 31 December of the individual in the savings sector.
Further 2008, alternative funds under management were distribution partnerships have been established as 16.0 billion.
the number of investors who turn to intermediaries for advice grows.
Alternative funds under management 16.0 billion Property 46% Commodities 16% Emerging market debt 17% Funds of hedge funds 13% Private equity funds of funds 8% Business review Private Banking We continue to reposition Private Banking offers specialist financial solutions to high net worth individuals, family offices and our Institutional business their advisers, utilising Schroders investment skills and external providers.
Dedicated relationship towards new products.
management is core to our proposition, to ensure that we gain a detailed understanding of our clients needs in order to provide customised solutions geared to their financial goals.
Private Banking profit before tax and exceptional items million 04 3.5 05 6.3 06 26.9 07 41.3 08 39.7 In 2008, we saw the first full year of operation of our Private Banking Service Centre in Zurich, which provides an integrated operating platform to support our business in Switzerland, the UK, the Channel Islands and Italy.
In February 2008, we acquired a private client business in Singapore which provides us with a growth opportunity in the attractive Asian market.
