Aegis Group plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 09 Synovate operating review Overview 2008 was a year of adversely The trading environment weakened in the second half, changing market conditions, particularly in the last quarter, in most of our markets.
In December we put a programme into place to reduce our in which Synovate delivered cost-base in selected markets.
Related costs have been treated a good improvement in net as exceptional and are covered in full in the financial review.
Gross revenue of 518.2m increased 19.7%, equivalent to 10.3% at constant currency.
Net revenue is calculated after This reflected a mix of organic direct costs and is an important management focus.
Net revenue was 329.2m, up 20.5%, or 11.3% at constant currency.
growth, acquisition effects and Of the 11.3% increase, 5.1 percentage points were organic, benefits from our SmartWork with the balance from acquisitions.
Efficiencies from offshoring data collection, particularly in North America, helped us improve our gross revenue conversion rate, Adrian Chedore CEO, Synovate resulting in a net revenue margin of 63.5%, up from 63.1% the previous year.
Operating profit at 42.2m was up 20.9%, equivalent to 13.1% at constant currency, and operating margins were stable at 8.1%, equivalent to an increase of 20 basis points at constant currency.
We continued to pursue a strategic agenda around building capability, improving efficiency and meeting the changing needs of customers.
Progress has been made on all three: adding capability in the emerging markets of Latin America and Africa, investing further in SmartWork, and increasing our focus on new technologies to give clients new levels of insight and efficiency.
Synovate EMEA Gross revenue increased to 248.4m, up 20.3%, equivalent to 11.2% at constant currency.
Net revenue was 147.6m, ahead 18.8%, or 10.1% at constant currency.
We delivered very strong growth in the emerging markets of Russia and Africa, the latter helped also by the acquisition of Steadman, the market leader in pan-Africa, which performed m Constant Change currency very well.
Net revenue is the same as gross profit in the statutory results.
Throughout this report, results are stated on an underlying basis unless otherwise indicated.
10 Synovate operating review continued Germany and Scandinavia proved more challenging markets, Synovate Asia-Pacific with a business mix weighted towards automotive and media Gross revenue was 124.6m, up 32.4%, equivalent to respectively, which reduced year-on-year results.
We also 20.7% at constant currency.
Net revenue was 81.1m, experienced tougher trading in Italy and Belgium, where we up 23.3% or 12.8% at constant currency.
merged Synovate and Censydiam to create a national market leader.
In the UK, we successfully integrated our separate Synovate Japan delivered an excellent result, following reorganisation businesses into a single site, which had a disruptive effect, and refocusing in the course of 2007 and Synovate Australia offset by good business wins in the last quarter.
In South Asia, we had a good year, reflecting healthy our performance in France and Spain, where the previous trading conditions and a solid performance across all our markets.
years acquisition of Metra Seis delivered good benefits.
India and Singapore performed particularly well.
We continued to innovate, introducing new data collection tools in a number The exceptional growth of previous years in the markets of Central of developing markets to improve efficiency.
and Eastern Europe and the Middle East was not fully maintained, resulting in some over-resourcing, which has been addressed.
We experienced some volatility in China.
Demand was affected by the Szechuan earthquake, which disrupted national sampling, and the Olympics, with August very quiet.
Along with a move Synovate Americas to lower cost data collection methods, these factors held gross Gross revenue in the Americas was up 9.6%, or 1.4% at constant revenue flat.
Net revenue and underlying operating profit benefited currency, to 145.2m.
Net revenue was 100.5m, up 20.8%, from the movement of some data functions to lower cost centres or 11.7% at constant currency.
Success in offshoring data services within China and tight cost management.
We have continued from North America, the largest part of our Americas business, to invest in product and in our China access panel, now over drove a significant uplift in net revenue margin.
This helped us a quarter of a million individuals, and an important source of deliver strong growth in underlying operating profit, despite weak competitive advantage.
Our public sector and financial service groups both traded strongly all year and, despite ad hoc Industry verticals weakness, automotive proved surprisingly strong overall until the fourth quarter.
After a slow start, consumer industries improved Industry specialism has become more important than ever in the second half as clients responded well to a reorganised in market research.
We continued to invest across the Group Synovate offer.
In April we transferred MMA, a leading and we have plans for additional industry verticals in the future.
marketing effectiveness consultancy, from Aegis Media into Synovate Healthcare ended the year very well, with good Synovate North America, to accelerate shared benefits across revenue growth and margin improvement.
This was in spite clients, research and marketing.
of a difficult first half, with a low opening order book and In Latin America, the acquisition of CIMA Group boosted pharmaceutical industry challenges.
Therapy Monitors, revenue and gross profit in an already healthy market.
our syndicated studies, performed very well: together with CIMA has helped us establish a sound footprint across the the continued growth in Asia and mainland Europe custom region, delivering good synergies in collaboration with our businesses, this more than offset a decline in US custom.
In Motoresearch we delivered another exceptional year of revenue growth despite a backdrop of continuing weakness in the ad hoc market, which accelerated towards year end.
We were helped by our strategic focus on solutions that are continuous and business-critical, such as customer satisfaction tool NADA 24, which brought a number of new OEM clients onstream, and by strong growth in emerging markets.
In retail scan data and analytics, Synovate Aztec continued to expand rapidly.
We increased share in the established markets of Australia and New Zealand, grew well in the newer markets of Hong Kong and South Africa and invested in future growth elsewhere.
In the UK, we entered the convenience sector with the acquisition of PS&A.
Aegis Group plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 11 Our global client relationship GCR programme, continued to Acquisitions enhance our overall revenue growth.
At the end of 2008 we Synovate made four acquisitions between January and July.
took a further step, bringing responsibility for our capabilities In the UK, PS&A became part of Synovate Aztec.
This takes and practices together with GCR.
This will allow us to expand us into the UK convenience sector, with tools and a client base the successful GCR programme to more clients, to introduce complementing our 2007 acquisition of SPSL and boosting a higher level of industry specialism and to customise our Synovates retail analytics offering.
We acquired Oncology intellectual property for additional sectors.
Inc. a US specialist providing oncology treatment data from 100,000 US patients, which extends our global leadership Capabilities in oncology.
We also expanded our geographic reach with CIMA, giving us full coverage of all major markets in We continued to invest in innovation throughout 2008.
In April Latin America, and Steadman, making Synovate the largest we launched our new customer experience management capability, market research company in Africa.
This brings together our expertise across customer experience, employee engagement, mystery shopping, footfall and business consulting to offer a 360 degree view of a customer.
It allows Market research clients to maximise KPIs such as loyalty, conversion and transaction Innovation ensures our market research offer evolves to meet value.
We introduced MarketQuest Interventions, which test price client needs, using and delivering the benefits of new technologies.
elasticity and product formulation in order to optimise product Directional trends here include the facility to combine client and profit in recessionary markets.
We also launched Connections and Synovate data to increase actionable insights.
There are for pre-testing consumer advertising, underpinned by MindClouds, significant gains to be made from the many billions of transactional our new qualitative approach.
Connections is the first tool to data-points housed in clients own customer databases.
measure how advertising creative affects overall perceptions of These have the capability to generate significant forward-looking a brand: its correlation to brand next bought is over three times intelligence, particularly when linked to survey and other consumer higher than the traditional measure of likeability.
In addition, we are now creating dedicated community panels for individual clients, to put brands into constant SmartWork qualitative dialogue with their most valuable opinion-forming customers.
This will remain a focus in 2009 and beyond.
Our SmartWork efficiency programme aims to make our operations fit for purpose at lowest cost.
By December we had offshored over 60% of data-processing in our 14 highest cost markets 37% in 2007, including 80% in North America.
We exceeded our target of offshoring 10% of our CATI in eight key markets by the year end and we continue to explore new ways to reduce the cost of data collection.
In 2008 we installed WorkBench, a new Synovate-wide research software platform, in Scandinavia.
The US and UK will follow in 2009, and we expect WorkBench to help drive efficiencies throughout the research process.
