06 Aegis Media operating review Overview 2008 saw a good performance Revenue of 823.8m was up 22.3%, or 10.0% at constant from most Aegis Media markets.
currency, and gross margin improved 80 basis points to 8.3%.
Operating profit of 157.9m was up 17.5%, equivalent to Our growth rates were good, 3.0% at constant currency.
An operating margin of 19.2% given a trading environment declined 80 basis points and 130 basis points at constant currency.
We achieved organic revenue growth of 6.1%, once more ahead that weakened in the second of the market.
half and a further fall in revenue 2008 started with a strong tailwind from an excellent new business performance in 2007, including 20th Century Fox, Mattel and at Carat US.
Margins were also Johnson & Johnson.
Levels of investment across our clients were affected by higher central costs, relatively healthy in the first half, with the exception of Spain.
In the second half, we experienced deflationary conditions in a since reduced in the second half.
number of our major media markets.
In response to tougher market Jerry Buhlmann CEO, Aegis Media conditions and greater uncertainty, we took measures to reduce overall headcount in a number of markets.
These have been expensed within the Group exceptional charge.
Digital represented 29% of full-year revenue in 2008, up from 26% in 2007.
Strategically we made good progress integrating our range of services, including the reorganisation of our international client services group into fully integrated offline-online teams at the end of the year.
This will also serve to reduce our central overheads in 2009.
Aegis Media EMEA Aegis Media EMEA grew revenue 24.8% to 588.1m, up 11.5% at constant currency.
Aegis Media UK delivered an excellent result, in market conditions that became increasingly challenging.
Improvement was principally driven by Carat and Vizeum, and by good cost containment.
Very strong organic revenue growth in the first half weakened with the market in the second half.
In Germany, we achieved strong revenue growth in a slow advertising market, with momentum across all services, especially digital and particularly search.
Our businesses in Eastern Europe all performed strongly, with Russia delivering exceptional growth.
m Constant We achieved a strong uplift in both revenue and operating profit Change currency at Aegis Media France, where trading remained resilient.
2008 2007 % % Growth was predominantly driven by digital, out-of-home and Revenues integrated solutions.
We launched Noyz in social networking and the Marvellous brand in mobile marketing.
Aegis Media Belgium EMEA 588.1 471.1 24.8 11.5 also had a good year.
Americas 167.3 153.7 8.8 0.2 Asia Pacific 68.4 48.6 40.7 26.0 Worldwide 823.8 673.4 22.3 10.0 Operating profit 157.9 134.4 17.5 3.0 Operating margin 19.2% 20.0% 80 bps 130 bps Throughout this report, results are stated on an underlying basis unless otherwise indicated.
Aegis Group plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 07 Our Spanish business experienced very difficult market Since the autumn, Carat US has achieved net new business conditions from April.
A contraction in the Spanish economy gains.
There remains further work ahead to achieve a satisfactory resulted in a double-digit decline in overall advertising expenditure.
Nonetheless, the Carat US offer remains The reduction in media budgets was in part offset by very fundamentally sound, with particular strength in insight and digital.
good growth in digital and sponsorship, and a one percentage Elsewhere in the US, we achieved a strong performance in point increase in market share, due to a strong new business iProspect, our global search network.
Good cost management partially mitigated the grew well, following recent acquisitions in both media and effect on operating profit.
Record turnover growth at Carat Portugal digital, and we launched Ammo in Canada.
took us from ninth to third in the market.
In Latin America, growth in turnover and revenue was principally A weaker economy resulted in flat revenue and reduced driven by the introduction of Carat and Vizeums international profitability at Aegis Media Italy.
In the Netherlands, client clients into an improved and expanded network.
However, consolidations resulted in a modest revenue decline.
Aegis Media profit in the region was affected by a reduction in spending by Nordics delivered another excellent result, after a record new financial services clients and a temporary increase in regional business performance the year before, and Carat became the business development resource.
number one media agency in the Nordics.
In the Middle East, we achieved a solid performance in rapidly Aegis Media Asia-Pacific growing markets.
In Algeria and Tunisia, we launched majorityowned Carat companies.
During the year, Aegis Media France Revenue of 68.4m was up 40.7%, equivalent to 26.0% at successfully set up an outsourcing relationship with Aegis Media constant currency.
The principal drivers of growth in the region Morocco, to provide web-build and search.
were our three largest markets: China, Taiwan and Australia.
In China, we delivered good organic revenue growth across all services.
Heartland, now part of the Posterscope network, Aegis Media Americas contributed strongly.
The Beijing Olympics boosted an already Revenue of 167.3m was up 8.8%, or flat at constant currency.
strong advertising market, with our own business benefiting from We saw steady revenue and profit growth in US diversified relationships with official sponsors, adidas and Coca-Cola.
services, offset by a weaker result at Carat US and Latin America.
Aegis Media Taiwan performed strongly once again, A disappointing new business performance at Carat US led retaining our largest local client.
In Australia, after a difficult to a small revenue and profit decline in our total North American 2007, Carat recovered well under new regional management.
The loss of Hyundai in the first quarter, and Overall, Carat topped the R3 New Business League for additional losses, which included the consolidation of New Line Asia-Pacific, for the first time.
Cinemas into its parent companys media agency, impacted both We continued to develop our businesses in Hong Kong and revenue and profit at Carat US.
In Japan and Korea we faced some We have a range of measures, both planned and underway, difficulties in our specialist agencies, which we are now addressing.
In the course of 2008 we took steps to match Aegis Media India had a steady year, with a new management headcount to business volumes and to consolidate our media team joining in the summer and subsequent service launches.
In October we appointed a new president Our businesses in Malaysia and Thailand grew steadily, for Carat US and we have reduced central overheads across both in volume and in services.
We closed our office in Irvine and this year we moved Carats New York office to new premises.
08 Aegis Media operating review continued Isobar Posterscope Isobar continued to grow well.
During the year, we built on In spite of UK market softness, Posterscope broadly held up our scale as the single biggest digital network in the world.
An international spread and mix of clients helped We put a number of our agency leaders into new broader us manage the effect of difficult trading conditions in the UK.
roles post earn-out and invested in the expansion of our specialist We continued to expand geographically, launching in India expertise.
We created seven key digital disciplines: search, as a wholly-owned entity and taking the network to 21 markets, data and analytics, web consulting and development, mobile, and opening a regional office of PSI, our specialist airport creative, online media and social media.
These now co-ordinate offer, in Singapore.
Heartland proved an excellent addition Isobars product and consultancy offering in each on a global to Posterscope.
basis, consolidating our specialist agency expertise.
Investment in consumer data remained a priority.
We introduced We continued to grow our search network, extending the roll-out OCS, our proprietary out-of-home consumer insight survey, to the of iProspect, our global search brand, with 11 new offices in eight US, and our European wave included Russia for the first time.
markets through acquisitions and openings.
At the year end, the iProspect network numbered a total of 26 offices in 21 markets and, Acquisitions supplemented by local search specialists in a number of markets, we had over 600 search staff.
In January 2009, iProspect was We completed 16 acquisitions in the year, two-thirds in the first named the overall Leader in the Forrester Wave report for the half.
Six of our acquisitions brought new search practices into second time.
Aegis Media: aposition in France, Checkit in the Netherlands, Extenseo in Belgium, Globlet in Thailand, Range in the US and In web consulting and development, Isobar agencies created a rmsarcar in Germany.
We increased our emerging markets number of impressive new products and experiences.
These include exposure with Heartland in out-of-home in China, media agency adidas miCoach, an internet and mobile based personal training Tempo in Romania, and digital agencies AdWatch in Russia, programme, the winner of gold and silver W3 Awards and a Age in Brazil and IF in Malaysia.
We also acquired Client & WebAward.
We extended the Marvellous brand to our existing Consumer in Spain, digital agency White Sheep in Finland, JJP agency in France and opened new offices in Amsterdam and in sponsorship and experiential in the Nordics and Men Company New York.
in Italy in the same space, as well as Clownfish in sustainability Isobar creative agencies Farfar in Sweden, glue London and consulting and marketing, operating in the UK and US.
Spains netthink were respectively placed second, ninth and fifteenth in the Gunn Reports interactive league table, New business which recognises most-awarded creative agencies globally.
2008 was a relatively quiet year for new international pitch Implementation of our own data platform continued.
As a result, net new business of US$922.5m was, Using the technology platform and new reporting tools of as expected, some way down.
We had a high level of defensive Bluestreak, our ad-serving unit, we can now aggregate consumerpitches, retaining Disney in Europe, Tourism Australia globally, centric data over multiple media channels, delivering analytics Chunghwa Telecom in Taiwan, Beiersdorf in China and Santander across online display, rich media, search, email and website in the UK, jointly worth over US$600m.
The loss of Renault in analytics data.
This gives our clients a new level of transparency October will be substantially offset by Carats Kelloggs win, and attribution by campaign, creative, publisher and consumer, confirmed at the start of this year, in 21 European markets.
enabling efficiency and impact improvements in planning and buying.
Bluestreak doubled its monthly volumes in the year.
At a local level, we remained very competitive.
Major wins In online media, a competitive segment, we have put in place included Portugal Telecom Mobile in Portugal: The Coca-Cola a number of new global deals with media owners.
Company in the UK and Germany and GlaxoSmithKline in Ireland.
We also won the AA, Sky, Telegraph Newspapers and 3 Mobile in the UK: Groupama in France: HBOS in Germany and the Netherlands: Panasonic across Eastern Europe: Alberto Culver and Parfetti Van Melle in Spain: H&M in Italy: the Netherlands lottery: Pernod Ricard and Ferrero in Russia: Johnson & Johnson in South Africa: Seagate, Virgin and Kohler in the US: Kodak in Mexico: and Bayer, Amway and Kraft in China.
