INNOVATIVE VALUE Operations Review Proven strategies, solid foundations This years Operations Review focuses on the development of the Groups integrated services proposition which will sustain our earnings growth in our highly attractive yet defensive marketplaces.
Overview of consensus social housing revenues for 2009 and 84% for 2010 already secured.
The Connaught story remains very consistent.
We have a clear focus upon delivering significant growth whilst Further improving the quality of our earnings is the retaining the quality of our earnings.
especially low risk nature of our operational activity, the robustness of our operating systems and our ever To do this we have aligned our activities to two increasing margins.
In addition, the vast majority of our significant markets, social housing and compliance, both services are either essential in nature or required by of which are well and truly fragmented.
In turn we law thereby making our revenues highly defensive in have designed the business to provide such significant uncertain economic times.
value to our customers that it encourages consolidation of the supplier base in these two markets.
This trend Integrated services strategy has contributed to our considerable growth, which has enabled us to move from the AIM market to the FTSE 250 Fundamental to our customer proposition is our over the last three years.
Both our Social Housing and Compliance divisions offer clients the opportunity In terms of earnings quality we only focus on areas of to utilise our comprehensive service mix, our streamlined high visibility as demonstrated by our order book which processes and our proprietary IT to fundamentally now stands at 2.6 billion and extends out to 2020.
It consolidate their supply chains and thereby increase is interesting to note that this order book includes no their own efficiency and effectiveness.
By working potential revenue from framework contracts or contract with our customers we are able not only to remove extensions, from which we are well placed to benefit in unnecessary cost but also to improve the frontline the future.
Our earnings visibility is strong with 95% services they receive.
Figure 1 Social Housing Integrated Services TM CONNTROL Community engagement Customer experience PLANNED RESPONSE COMPLIANCE ESTATE Cyclical repairs Maintenance Gas Streets Decent Homes Voids Electrical Estates Adaptations General areas Fire Grounds Energy Water Recycling Asbestos 14 Operations Review Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 c99397 BOOK.
indb 14 5 11 08 11:22:17 Operations Review Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 Operations Review 15 c99397 BOOK.
indb 15 5 11 08 11:22:19 Operations Review As the service mix is fundamental to this strategy our Compliance acquisition policy has been focused on extending the In the Compliance division our acquisition programme range of related services we provide, to the extent that has been the fundamental driver behind the creation of we now offer our customers the most comprehensive our integrated services solution outlined in figure 2. integrated service solutions available within our This started with the acquisition of Gasforce in 2002 two markets.
and includes National Britannia, a health and safety risk Social Housing management business acquired for 91 million in October In the Social Housing division we provide clients with 2007.
More recently we have completed the acquisitions a range of planned, response, compliance and estate of MSF, a fire service business for a net consideration of services as shown in figure 1.
Whilst our planned business 6.5 million, and the Lowe Group trading as Necta, an has been organically developed the remaining services electrical compliance business for 7.5 million.
exist as a result of acquisitions.
In 2007 these included AE Selective bolt-on acquisitions will remain a key part of Williams in London and Baldwins in Leeds, both of which our ongoing growth strategy, either to extend our service are fully integrated and now form the backbone of our range or to create a national capability in every service response maintenance activities throughout the UK.
In the current economic climate we would The social housing market is worth a very significant expect such deals to be increasingly earnings enhancing 10.5 billion per annum and we are the market leader as vendors adjust their expectations.
Expenditure is underpinned The acquisition of National Britannia brought with it by rental income from over five million households an excellent customer service and administrative centre within the sector.
Demand for social housing is increasing based in South Wales.
As we integrate our acquisitions, in these uncertain times and there is a shortfall in the this significant resource is becoming the operational number of properties available for rent with waiting lists and customer service hub for the Compliance division higher than ever.
and we expect to generate ongoing economies of scale The trend towards market consolidation is apparent from as a result.
the fact that in the last four years the market share of the The Compliance division operates in a highly attractive top ten players has increased from 13% to 21%.
5.7 billion market currently estimated to be growing at Furthermore, our order intake in the period was around 7% per annum.
Expenditure is effectively non- 855 million with an additional 150 million secured discretionary and is driven by ever increasing legislation, since the year end.
Of this 1 billion total order intake, enforcement by the Health & Safety Executive and rising over 80% were integrated service contracts further insurance costs for any areas of non-compliance.
evidence of the consolidation of the market and how Whilst we only have a 2.5% market share in compliance well Connaught is placed to benefit from this trend.
our integrated services solution is driving consolidation through the trend towards larger multi-service contracts Figure 2 Compliance Integrated Services Solution Occupational health Gas TM Reportline Health & Safety Water TM Responseline Environmental Fire TM SAFEcontractor Food hygiene Electrical TM e-risk Manager Energy Asbestos 16 Operations Review Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 c99397 BOOK.
indb 16 5 11 08 11:22:20 H. S. E. INFORMATION SERVICES ADVISORY SERVICES TRAINING RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS TESTING & CERTIFICATION SERVICES Operations Review and an increased propensity to outsource.
Our customers truly understanding each and every touch point with are looking for a trusted compliance partner who will our customers we are able to effectively manage our manage their compliance risk, to ensure they remain legal customer relationships and build long-term client loyalty.
and safe, as efficiently as possible.
Understanding our customers has been critical to our All of our acquired compliance businesses are now sustained success and is reflected in our increasing trading under the Connaught brand, which facilitates earnings visibility.
cross-selling and ensures a consistent approach.
The Connaught brand is a powerful tool and is recognised in Investing in our people our markets as providing excellent customer service whilst The very nature of our business requires us to employ being financially solid and secure.
Effective engagement with our people has played a key part in Connaught becoming the Investing in technology successful business that it is today.
Software solutions, when integrated with our operational Through the Connaught Academy we provide training activities, are becoming increasingly important as we and development opportunities for all of our people.
undertake to deliver to our customers a level of value they would struggle to achieve elsewhere.
We work hard to ensure that every employee TM understands how their contribution helps us achieve In our Social Housing division we utilise Conntrol which our overall objectives.
This understanding and the has been developed in-house to be the most efficient commitment of all our people has been critical in and advanced system in the market for driving labour delivering the outstanding results outlined in this Annual productivity and managing assets, thereby reducing costs.
Report and Accounts and in building the foundations The system is being continually updated and improved to which will underpin our future success.
further enhance the service we deliver to our customers.
Conclusion Within the Compliance division we have inherited a number of excellent systems from National Britannia, all 2008 has been a year of great progress for Connaught.
of which have been developed in-house.
These systems We have established the most comprehensive integrated provide customers with complete visibility on the current service capability in the social housing and compliance status of their risk management obligations, as well as markets.
Our clients are increasingly recognising the the most up-to-date health and safety information.
They efficiency benefits of an integrated solution which is are also a useful tool for our customers to check the evident in our 1 billion order intake over the last compliance of their supply chain partners.
Our outsourced accident reporting and call centre Both of our markets remain highly attractive with contracts with the Health & Safety Executive enhance the significant further growth potential whilst at the same information service we can provide and are a clear source time being highly defensive due to the non-discretionary of accreditation when selling compliance services to all of and essential nature of expenditure.
The Groups order our customers.
book is at record levels, together with a healthy pipeline of new opportunities.
Our margins remain on an upward Investing in customer experience trend and our financial position is strong.
The Connaught brand stands for outstanding customer Connaught is in good shape, our forward earnings service within a financially stable framework.
In order to visibility is very healthy, our management teams deliver and even exceed the level of service our customers across the Group continue to develop in both strength require we have developed our unique customer and depth, and together we face the future with experience programme.
This programme links the actions and attitudes of our Mark Davies people together with a set of consistent, operational Chief Executive processes which ensure that we deliver an outstanding level of service clearly differentiated from our competition.
Customer experience is more than just customer service it is the end-to-end experience our customers receive every time they deal with us as an organisation.
By Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 Operations Review 17 c99397 BOOK.
