Business Review Operating Review There is a strong trend towards the greater use of lighter-weight packaging.
Supply of corrugated board and boxes is generally PACKAGING relatively local to the point of production, with a typical operational radius of approximately 150 miles, owing to Paper and Corrugated customers service requirements and the proportionately Market Overview high transport costs for a low-density product.
Pricing and margins in corrugated packaging are strongly inuenced The Corrugated Packaging Market by developments in the price of corrugated case material The European market for corrugated packaging is CCM, the paper that is the principal component in estimated to be approximately 19 billion, equivalent corrugated packaging, and which typically accounts for to approximately 22 million tonnes or 41 billion square 1 around 50% of the cost of a box.
metres, of which the UK market is estimated to be approximately 9%.
Demand for corrugated packaging The Corrugated Case Material Market is principally inuenced by overall economic activity Whereas boxes are generally sold locally, CCM is sold and manufacturing output.
on a pan-European basis and pricing is therefore affected Usage of corrugated packaging boxes for the fast-moving by pan-European supply and demand factors.
The total consumer goods FMCG sector, which accounts for demand for CCM in Europe including eastern and central approximately two-thirds of the corrugated market, has Europe but not Russia is circa 25 million tonnes.
Demand from the FMCG sector has for CCM in Europe is dependent upon European demand particularly benefited from the continued growth of retailfor corrugated packaging, as the imports and exports of ready packaging RRP, which can be readily converted unlled boxes are negligible.
Approximately 80% of the from its initial role as a protective transit pack into its second CCM used in Europe is made from recycled bre, with the role as a box or tray that can be placed on display in the balance principally comprising kraftliner, made from virgin retail store.
RRP benets retailers by reducing the manual wood pulp.
work involved in loading goods onto store shelves and The strong trend towards the greater use of lighter-weight lowering the amount of damage to goods in store, while corrugated packaging is being driven not only by the enabling products to be presented more attractively.
RRP continuing pressure through the supply chain to reduce the requires more sophisticated packaging manufacturing cost of packaging but also the increased attention being capabilities for cutting, printing and gluing the corrugated given to the quantity and type of packaging being used board to form the more complicated box structures.
The in order to reduce the amount of waste going to landll.
increased proportion of these higher value-added boxes, Corrugated packaging is fully recyclable and the trend often requiring multi-passes within the production process, towards use of lighter-weight boxes has been enabled has contributed to a higher level of capacity utilisation across the corrugated industry.
by the increasing availability of high-quality lightweight recycled CCM with good strength characteristics.
This Corrugated boxes are Another consumer-focused area of usage for corrugated lightweight CCM allows box manufacturers to produce generally supplied to packaging which is growing is promotional applications, packaging with high performance characteristics while customers within an incorporating high-quality printing and design for RRP, reducing the weight of material used.
Lightweight recycled approximate 150 retail and promotional display material and other uses.
CCM is estimated to account for circa 7% circa 1.8 million miles radius of the Usage of corrugated packaging for the home delivery tonnes of the total European CCM market currently and production plant.
of products also continues to grow in association with the this share is expected to rise to circa 15% circa 4 million development of purchasing through the internet.
In contrast, tonnes by 2010, representing a growth of circa 2 million the usage of boxes in some industrial manufacturing sectors tonnes.
Although there is strong demand for high-quality, of western Europe has been adversely affected by the lightweight CCM, growth in this segment of the CCM transfer of manufacturing to lower cost countries.
market will continue to be limited by the available supply In the calendar year 2007, the European market for of lightweight paper as the majority of the existing CCM corrugated packaging, measured in square metres, grew machines are unable to manufacture lightweight papers 2 by 2.6%.
Demand in western Europe grew by 1.8% cost-effectively or to an acceptable quality.
although within this the UK market fell by 1.2%.
Demand The European industry supply and demand position for growth in eastern and central Europe continued to be recycled CCM has been broadly in balance since early much stronger at 7.0%.
Owing to cost and environmental 2006.
Although no significant CCM capacity additions pressures, there is an increasing emphasis in most markets are expected in the second half of 2008, four European on reducing the average weight of packaging.
As a result, recycled CCM producers, including DS Smith, have Severnside Recycling European demand growth when measured by weight was announced their intentions to invest in new machines ensures that St Regis has a 1.6% and the UK market, which is at the forefront of the capable of producing lightweight CCM.
These four new cost-competitive supply of lightweighting trend, fell by 2.9%.
Across Europe, market machines will be located in the UK, Germany, Poland and waste paper, a globally growth began to slow during the second half of 2007 and Hungary and are due to start production during 2009. traded commodity.
recent indicators suggest that the market has continued to be sluggish in the early months of 2008.
1 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers DS Smith estimates 2 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers Confederation of Paper Industries 18 www.
com Further details on DS Smiths investment project are Waste Paper provided on pages 20 and 21.
The total new capacity Waste paper, the principal raw material for recycled CCM, will produce circa 1.8 million tonnes per annum when is a globally traded commodity.
The price of old corrugated it is fully operational, which will represent an overall containers OCC, the principal grade of waste paper used increase in capacity of approximately 7%.
It is expected for producing CCM, rose by circa 35% between January 3 that the production from the new machines will principally 2007 and April 2008.
This was largely due to the be targeted at satisfying the rapidly growing European continuing high level of demand for it from Asia as a result demand for lightweight paper.
of the recent substantial investment in recycled paper manufacturing in that region.
In the UK, the higher net cost of our raw material has also been exacerbated by the CCM and Box Prices Following a period during 2004 and 2005 of falling CCM continuing very low value of Packaging Recovery Notes and box prices and sharply rising energy and waste paper PRNs, which are issued as evidence that packaging has input costs, a tighter European supply and demand position been reprocessed, in compliance with the UK Packaging on CCM and corrugated packaging enabled CCM and box Waste Regulations.
producers to increase their prices, in several stages, during 2006 and 2007.
This resulted in a recovery of the higher input costs of energy and waste paper and improved margins.
The most recent CCM price increase occurred in September 2007, following which box producers increased their prices over the subsequent months to recover the higher paper costs.
Since the start of 2008, the slow-down in demand for boxes has resulted in some softening of CCM prices, particularly in continental Europe.
The strength of the euro has provided support to prices in the UK.
The Corrugated Packaging Recycling Process DS Smiths operations play a significant role in the first three stages of the corrugated packaging recycling process.
The bres in corrugated boxes can be back on the shelf in store within 14 days of disposal: their re-use minimises waste disposal to landll.
In the 5 UK, over 80% of corrugated 4 Boxes used packaging is recycled.
Boxes lled and disposed and delivered of for recycling Corrugated boxes protect products, reduce product wastage, enable more efficient and lower-cost handling and transportation and 1 The corrugated loop are increasingly used to provide Used boxes and strong visual display in store.
paper collected, Approximately two-thirds are used sorted for food, beverages and other and baled 3 fast-moving consumer goods.
Paper converted into board and then boxes 2 Paper bres recycled into paper 3 Source: RISI, Inc. DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 19 Business Review Operating Review continued towards the end of the year.
The three smaller mills, which UK Paper and principally produce higher value-added speciality products, Corrugated Packaging made good progress.
Results advanced strongly In February 2008, DS Smith acquired from M-real Corporation, for a consideration of 60 million in cash, 2007 08 2006 07 the New Thames Paper Mill, which is located adjacent to St Regis Kemsley Mill, as well as the 50% balance of Revenue m 753.2 687.1 Grovehurst Energy, the mills energy and services supplier, Adjusted operating profit m 68.5 36.5 not already owned by DS Smith.
In addition, we incurred Adjusted EBITDA m 100.4 68.0 a net cash cost of 7 million from a one-off payment, net Our corrugated packaging Key performance indicators: of tax, towards the costs of the transfer of the associated operations convert corrugated Revenue growth % 9.6% 5.8% pension scheme to a third party.
The acquired facility board into value-added Adjusted return on sales % 9.1% 5.3% currently produces ne uncoated paper and, using the latest retail-ready boxes.
papermaking technology, we intend to invest a further circa Adjusted EBITDA margin % 13.3% 9.9% 37 million in the modication of the acquired facility to Adjusted return on average capital employed % 14.3% 7.6% enable it to produce approximately 260,000 tonnes per 2006 07: before an exceptional profit of 6.7 million annum of high-quality lightweight recycled CCM.
It is planned that the converted machine will commence 2007 08 Performance production in January 2009.
The total cost of this project is Results in the UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging segment expected to be circa 104 million and will be funded from advanced strongly, reecting good recovery of higher input costs through better pricing and the previous actions taken the Groups existing debt facilities.
to strengthen further the Groups UK market positions in This acquisition and investment will materially strengthen the waste paper collection, recycled paper and boxes.
Revenue long-term competitiveness of our UK Paper and Corrugated advanced by 10% to 753.2 million: on a like-for-like basis, Packaging business.
It reinforces us in our aim to be a leader excluding the paper mill closed in October 2006 and New in the area of high-quality lighter-weight packaging and gives Thames Paper Mill acquired in February 2008, revenue us a significant capability in the growth segment of high-quality increased by 9%.
Adjusted operating profit was substantially lightweight CCM.
Total UK demand for lightweight recycled higher at 68.5 million 2006 07: 36.5 million.
CCM is expected to grow from an estimated 400,000 tonnes We raised our prices of CCM and boxes in order to recover in 2007 to over 600,000 tonnes by 2010.
At present, UK the further increases in the costs of energy and waste paper.
demand is very largely met by imports from continental Although these price increases enabled us to rebuild our Europe as total UK manufacturing of this product is less than margins, further increases in the cost of energy and the 100,000 tonnes per annum.
The Group currently has very continuing high cost of waste paper put pressure on our limited capacity to produce lightweight CCM, which accounts margins during the second half of the financial year.
for approximately 25% approximately 150,000 tonnes per annum of the CCM usage of our UK corrugated packaging Our waste collection business, Severnside Recycling, grew operations.
This project is expected to generate good financial strongly, assisted by the increased demand for recycling returns in its first full year of operation 2009 10 and provide services and government action to reduce the amount of very good returns for shareholders in the longer-term.
The first waste going to landll.
In addition to fullling its primary role of securing the required quantities of bre for our UK stage of the modication of the acquired facility, the construction paper mills, we developed further its value-added waste of a new stock preparation plant, is progressing to plan.
Severnside and our UK box business, Further details of this project are provided on page 21.
DS Smith Packaging, collaborate in marketing our cradleDS Smith Packagings revenue and profit advanced as a to-cradle environmental capability.
This encompasses the result of good sales growth in higher value-added converted Groups expertise in designing packaging that will minimise products and the mitigation of higher input costs through waste throughout the supply chain, our manufacturing raised prices and improved productivity.
Our results network for producing recycled paper and corrugated benefited from our focus on the growing RRP and decorative boxes which are fully recyclable, and Severnsides sectors of the market, which require greater design input services for managing customers entire waste recycling and more sophisticated manufacturing capability.
In our and disposal needs.
sheet feeding operations, which supply corrugated sheet St Regis, our UK paper business, increased its total to box converters, sales were adversely affected by our sales volume from our ongoing mills through improved emphasis on recovering the higher input costs.
We enhanced our margin by means of In March 2008, the Group acquired Multigraphics the recovery of higher input costs through raised prices, reduced operating costs as a result of our previous Holdings Limited from funds managed by 3i and from the restructuring action, and our increased capability to Multigraphics management team.
Multigraphics specialises produce higher value-added products at Kemsley and in the design and printing of retail and promotional display Wansbrough Mills following recent investment.
DS Smith Packaging is a substantial supplier of Mill performed well, assisted by further strong sales growth high-quality printed display material.
This acquisition in plasterboard liner.
The mills sales were curtailed by a re further strengthened the Groups position in this fastwhich incapacitated one of its machines for three weeks growing sector of the market.
com Investing in lighter-weight packaging There is rapidly growing demand for high-quality lightweight recycled CCM with good strength characteristics because it enables box manufacturers to produce lighter-weight packaging.
DS Smith Stock preparation has acquired New Thames Paper A new stock preparation plant Mill NTPM, which is adjacent to is being built.
It will process St Regis Kemsley Mill.
NTPMs PM6 300,000 tonnes of waste paper paper machine currently produces ne per annum to produce stock uncoated paper and will be modied of the optimum strength and to produce circa 260,000 tonnes of consistency to make lightweight lightweight CCM per annum.
principal modications being made The stock will comprise 99.5% are described on this page.
water and 0.5% bre as it enters Production of lightweight CCM on the paper machine.
PM6 is due to start in January 2009.
Drying section Drying section The drying section of the paper machine will be upgraded to enable it to handle lightweight CCM efficiently.
The paper has to be well supported as it passes round the heated drying cylinders.
This section will include a size Press section press to maximise the quality of the paper.
A new press section will be installed on the paper At the end of the drying machine, which will squeeze process the paper will water efficiently from the contain only 8% moisture.
It is designed specically to handle lightweight CCM and will help optimise the output of the machine.
Once the paper has passed through the press section, it will comprise 50% water and 50% bre.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 21 Business Review Operating Review continued Entering 2008 09, energy, waste and starch input costs brown and white goods and automotive sectors, were are exerting further pressure on our margins.
We will depressed by slower market growth and increased price seek to mitigate these higher costs though pricing, raised pressure, principally as a result of the weakening of the productivity and cost reduction.
A key priority is to Turkish economy.
We have implemented an extensive implement our lightweight CCM project in line with our programme aimed at restoring profitability by widening plan.
In this segment, our strong market positions and the business mix and lowering costs.
Results at our our focus on the higher value-added sectors of the market Ukrainian associate business, Rubezhansk, which is provide us with a good base from which to compete.
reported under associates, were affected by a re at its paper mill.
The investment project to increase its capacity signicantly and broaden its product range is progressing.
Continental European Corrugated boxes are tested In 2008 09, our priorities in this segment are to restore to ensure they provide the Corrugated Packaging profitability in our Turkish business, improve further the required protection for the operational performance in our established markets and Higher input costs product they are transporting.
continue to develop our businesses in eastern and central were recovered through Europe: we will continue to concentrate particularly on higher value-added product sectors in all our markets.
better pricing Plastic Packaging 2007 08 2006 07 Revenue m 346.0 308.0 profit progress was held back Operating profit m 20.3 18.2 by competitive pressures EBITDA m 33.9 31.5 Key performance indicators: 2007 08 2006 07 Revenue growth % 12.3% 11.4% Revenue m 223.4 201.8 Return on sales % 5.9% 5.9% Adjusted operating profit m 10.7 10.2 Plastic packaging for the EBITDA margin % 9.8% 10.2% Adjusted EBITDA m 21.2 21.9 pharmaceutical sector has Return on average capital employed % 10.9% 11.1% Key performance indicators: to be produced in special Revenue growth % 10.7% 0.3 % hygienic conditions.
2007 08 Performance Adjusted return on sales % 4.8% 5.1% DS Smith Kaysersberg achieved a good result principally Adjusted EBITDA margin % 9.5% 10.9% due to its programme to recover higher input costs through Adjusted return on average capital employed % 8.4% 8.3% better pricing and its focus on higher value-added products.
before an exceptional charge of 1.9 million 2006 07: 1.9 million Revenue grew by 12.3% to 346.0 million.
This segment, which is a substantial net buyer of paper, was adversely Market Overview affected in the first half of the financial year by higher input Returnable transit packaging RTP products are mostly costs, which we recovered during the second half of the used within the retail, automotive, electronics and beverage year.
Operating profit increased by 12% to 20.3 million.
Demand is heavily inuenced by industry sector In our established markets, the French paper business, activity levels.
RTP is often a capital purchase for our which focuses on providing a high level of customer service customers, being driven by particular projects, hence on speciality products, performed creditably.
Our French annual demand can be uneven.
The European market for corrugated packaging business improved its margin through RTP, which is estimated to be approximately 1 billion, is improvements in productivity, recovery of the higher input fragmented into many product sub-sectors and has a large costs and its focus on higher value-added sectors such as number of suppliers.
In western Europe, market growth heavy-duty packaging.
We restructured our commercial, is estimated to be 23% per annum.
Overall the trend marketing and support functions to strengthen further towards the use of multi-trip, reusable packaging on cost the businesss approach to its market.
Through capital and environmental grounds has been slower over the last investment we are increasing our capability in RRP, which two years than was previously the case.
The slow-down in should help us in the coming year.
In Italy, our two highly demand has been partly as a result of the higher polymer efficient factories performed well in a particularly price costs and partly due to the relocation of some major competitive market environment.
customer sectors, such as the automotive and electronics industries, to eastern Europe, where the RTP market growth In our developing markets, the Polish business achieved is estimated to be approximately 15% per annum.
a further strong advance through substantial sales growth, in excess of the rapidly expanding market, and an The global market for liquid packaging and dispensing increased concentration on higher value-added products.
LP&D products is estimated to be approximately 400 We continued the development of our small converting million.
The principal uses of bag-in-box packaging are businesses in the Czech Republic and Slovakia aimed for wine, agricultural produce such as fruit juice and principally at the automotive industry in central Europe.
dairy products and food service applications such as Results at our business in Turkey, which focuses on the carbonated soft-drink concentrate for the hotel and 22 www.
Volume growth in the North American OFFICE PRODUCTS and European markets is estimated to be approximately 5% WHOLESALING per annum, while the market in Asia-Pacic is at an early stage of development and growing rapidly.
The market for Spicers achieved a signicantly dispensing products principally taps, other than for bag-in-box systems, is fragmented across a wide range of improved result applications.
DS Smith is a major supplier to the wine and liquid detergent sector: the latter has grown strongly in recent 2007 08 2006 07 years in the USA and is now starting to develop in Europe.
Revenue m 644.9 569.2 Adjusted operating profit m 20.1 12.8 2007 08 Performance Spicers marketing department Adjusted EBITDA m 26.1 19.2 DS Smith Plastics grew its revenue by 11% to 223.4 develops bespoke promotional Key performance indicators: million.
There was a 5% advance in adjusted operating material for its customers.
profit to 10.7 million, due to good performance in RTP Revenue growth % 13.3% 9.7% and the two smaller businesses, which was partly offset Adjusted return on sales % 3.1% 2.2% by weaker results in LP&D.
Adjusted EBITDA margin % 4.0% 3.4% Adjusted return on average capital employed % 15.1% 9.8% Revenue in RTP, which accounted for 48% of the segment revenue, advanced by 16%.
The beverage crate business 2006 07: before an exceptional charge of 2.9 million performed well, assisted by the fullment of several large contracts, good sales of its innovative keg pallet and the Market Overview start-up of a new operation in Portugal.
Sales of other The ofce products markets of the UK, France and Germany, RTP product lines in total achieved an improved result, in which Spicers currently has approximately 85% of its benefiting from previous actions taken to strengthen the sales, are estimated to be worth approximately 7 billion, sales and product development functions.
A new business 6 billion and 8 billion respectively, at manufacturers was launched aimed at providing bespoke RTP replenishment selling prices.
The demand for ofce products is principally solutions for food and beverage companies in the retail inuenced by the level of economic activity.
We grew RTP sales from our operations growth in the value of the markets in which Spicers operates in the Czech Republic and Slovakia which supply customers, is estimated to have been low or at overall, with the particularly in the automotive sector, in that region.
traditional stationery sector being at or in decline and the 4 electronic ofce supplies EOS sector showing strong growth.
In LP&D, revenue, which accounted for 41% of the segment, grew by 1%.
Pressure on prices affected both the American The volume of products bought by ofces continues to and European businesses and increased competition in wine increase, but the value of the market is being held back bags also held back results in Europe.
Our USA operations by price deation caused by intense competition between performed well, benefiting from innovative new products suppliers and the trend for consumers to buy lowerand the development of new market sectors for bag-in-box specication or own-branded products.
An agreement has been reached with our growing sector of the market, accounts for approximately employees in Germany about the proposed restructuring 50% of the total ofce products market: it is especially of our European LP&D operations.
The injection moulding price-competitive on the high-volume EOS products.
of taps in Europe is in the process of being consolidated The relative shares of the various supply channels to the at our Merton site in the UK.
Bag production in Germany end-user market differ by country.
Spicers principally will be consolidated at our Schwetzingen site near Frankfurt supplies ofce products dealers and resellers: in the between February and April 2009, prior to production countries in which Spicers operates, this channel accounts, ceasing at our Dren site in April 2009.
The total on average, for approximately 35% of the total ofce restructuring charge, taken in 2006 07 and 2007 08 products market.
The share of the market held by dealers is 3.8 million: we expect the improved results of this has been relatively stable in recent years.
Ofce products business to provide a three-year payback on this charge.
dealers primarily sell to smaller and medium-sized ofces, Our small packaging management business benefited from generally offer a high standard of service to their customers our recent investment and previous restructuring actions.
and source most of their products either from wholesalers or StePac, our development business which specialises in direct from manufacturers.
The distribution channels in the modied atmosphere packaging, continued to grow its ofce products market are explained further on page 24. sales and profit strongly.
Wholesalers, on average, account for approximately 10% At this early stage of the year, this segment is facing of the total market.
The direct wholesaling competition that further increases in polymer costs as a result of the high Spicers faces varies by country.
In the UK there is one other price of oil: we will look to mitigate any higher input costs significant national wholesaler of ofce products.
In most through raising prices and productivity improvements.
continental European markets competition from other Other priorities for 2008 09 are, in RTP, to grow profitable national wholesalers is limited, but there are significant sales in new products and markets and, in LP&D, to numbers of regional and local wholesalers.
The European complete the restructuring of our European operations scale of Spicers business assists it in offering a broad range and to rebuild profits.
of products at competitive prices relative to those of many of 4 Source: DS Smith estimates based on national data DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 23 Business Review Operating Review continued its smaller wholesaling competitors.
Spicers commitment to the market as a whole, which helps us in providing good supplying only the trade, and not, as some of its competitors support to our dealers.
We are looking to continue the do, supplying end-users, gives it a competitive advantage.
development of our sales in both EOS and non-EOS Spicers competes indirectly with a number of other products.
Further actions to improve the longer-term distribution channels.
The most significant of these, contract competitiveness of the UK distribution network continue stationers, accounts for 1015% of the total market: they to be reviewed.
generally sell to larger ofces and offer a smaller range In continental Europe, our two well-established businesses of products than is stocked by Spicers.
The other principal in France and the Benelux region, which account for 31% competitor channels to market are: mail order, ofce of Spicers total revenue, developed further their strong superstores, other retailers and manufacturers selling market positions and maintained their good performance.
Spicers UK benefited direct to ofces.
In France, we benefited from the recruitment of new from the actions taken to customers and action to lower costs, while Spicers Benelux raise the efficiency of its 2007 08 Performance achieved a significant sales advance in the Netherlands distribution centres.
Ofce Products Wholesaling Spicers achieved a as a result of refocusing its sales effort separately on the signicantly improved result due to continued progress in Belgian and Dutch markets.
the continental European businesses and an advance in the UK.
The result is in line with our three-year plan to restore In the continental development businesses, which represent profits.
We increased revenue by 13% to 644.9 million, 17% of Spicers total revenue, Spicers Germany achieved with particularly strong growth in the UK and Italy.
Adjusted good progress on the back of high service levels and raised operating profit advanced by 57% to 20.1 million.
The Spanish business grew by extending its customer base, benefiting from its second distribution Spicers UK results benefited from the ongoing action centre, which opened near Madrid in October 2006, while programme to raise our profits in this important business in Italy sales continued to grow rapidly, ahead of our plan: and the previous restructuring of the regional distribution the business is now established as a significant supplier centre network.
Service levels signicantly improved as we to the Italian market.
moved through 2007 08, reaching a good level as we exited the year.
There was a substantial increase in sales.
For 2008 09, we are focused on achieving a further All of this increase was in EOS products.
The proportion of advance in profits in the UK and maintaining progress EOS within our sales mix now more closely reects that of in our development businesses in continental Europe.
Ofce Products Market Distribution Channels Ofce products are distributed from the manufacturers to the end-users in ofces through various channels.
Manufacturers Spicers operates in the wholesaler dealer channel which competes effectively and profitably by combining the specialisation and buying power of the wholesaler with the low overhead cost structure of the dealer.
Wholesalers also supply product to the other main channels because they are well equipped to hold stock of a large range of items.
Sources of supply: Wholesalers Primary Secondary Delivery Only Major national and multinational players: Contract Stationers, Mail Ofce end-users Order, Superstores, Dealers Major Retailers & resellers 24 www.
com Spicers business model Supplies trade customers dealers and resellers with: Everything for the ofce, except computers up to 18,000 product lines, brands and own-label Marketing support catalogues promotions Spicers Business development support E-commerce systems Fast service same next day Fullment service orders delivered to dealers or direct to end-users Dealers & resellers Dealers & resellers Sell to end-users Some hold stock Some are stockless and use Spicers as their fullment provider Source products from Spicers: may also buy from manufacturers Ofce end-users Ofces of all sizes from one person to large businesses buy their ofce products from dealers Dealers also sell to other organisations such as schools and sometimes sell directly to consumers End-users can buy from the dealer Ofce end-users customers of Spicers not only traditional stationery and electronic ofce supplies but also ofce furniture, janitorial supplies and ofce catering and vending provisions Key Communication Product orders Product deliveries Product range Orders placed catalogue internet mainly via e-commerce Marketing support systems DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 25
