x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 10:51 Page 6 6 eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operational Review The business is structured in three inter-related segments: Managed Services, Installation Services and Specialist Support Services.
The business is structured in three inter-related segments: Managed Our strongest people-related challenge over the last twelve months Services, Installation Services and Specialist Support Services.
has been preserving our operating culture as our expansion both organic and through acquisition has continued to accelerate.
Managed Services previously known as Government Contracts We are committed to reinforcing, reinvigorating and renewing provides the front-end management functions, including our value set as we continue our growth plans.
marketing, front office and back office activities, that drive the programmes we manage for a range of customers, such as Managed Services Defra, the BBC and the Legal Services Commission.
This segment With a continued focus on rising domestic energy costs, ongoing also provides support for our internal infrastructure requirements pressure on the subject of environmental change and a concurrent Installation Services is the fastest growing of our operating focus on the demands of the social exclusion agenda, our work segments, and is the area of our business where we carry out with central and local Government has retained a high profile work in customers homes: particularly the physical installation throughout the year, with resultant increases in demand.
of measures such as loft and cavity wall insulation and efficient Increased demand has generated significantly higher levels central heating, as well as our energy assessment and contact of activity during the year in Government-funded fuel poverty centre activities schemes, increasing segment revenue by 17% to 420.3 million Specialist Support Services provides bespoke support businesses, 2007: 359.3 million.
EBITA was 8.6 million at a margin of which are driven by the same market dynamics as other 2.1% 2007: 2.1%.
segments whilst gaining value from activity in our other businesses Fuel Poverty Schemes The Warm Front Scheme is the Governments main policy Our Culture instrument in tackling fuel poverty in England, and is wholly As a co-owned business, our employees, through the eaga delivered by eaga.
The Scheme remains a key contract in this sector, 2 Partnership Trust, are the biggest shareholder in eaga.
For this and accounted for 86% of segment revenue in the year 2007: reason, we call our people Partners, and encourage them to think 82%.
Warm Front forms a key part of the Governments statutory and act as owners of our business.
Our approach to co-ownership commitment to eradicate fuel poverty in vulnerable households has, we believe, resulted in greater engagement and productivity those containing children, the elderly, disabled or long term sick from our Partner base, and our commitment to this unique business by 2010, and in all homes by 2016. model remains resolute.
As a result of the Governments Comprehensive Spending Review, Our operating culture is best underlined in our core business it was announced in December 2007 that more than 800m would commitment: which is to care for our Partners, customers be allocated to Warm Front over the 2008-11 period: extending and communities with integrity, respect and enthusiasm.
funding for the Scheme beyond the Governments first statutory This year we have worked with more Partners, dealt with more 3 fuel poverty commitment in 2010 and demonstrating the customers and been engaged in more communities, than ever Governments clear support for the policy of tackling fuel poverty before.
Throughout, we have maintained our aim to have a positive in a sustainable way.
impact in all of these areas: through personal and professional Last year we helped more than a quarter of a million homes under development, through the continuous improvement of our service: Warm Front, and we are pleased with the overall quality of work and a strong sense of our corporate social responsibilities.
In particular, it is encouraging that waiting times for work We firmly believe that investing in our Partners, delivering excellent to be carried out have remained very low in relation to contractual service and retaining a strong focus on our values-based approach guidelines: running at around half the specified level, customer are the key factors in our drive to further expand and permeate satisfaction has stayed high, remaining in excess of 90% over our brand and approach.
the year, and value for money was retained throughout.
2 2 Post flotation the eaga Partnership Trusts ePT retain more than 37% eagas contract to deliver Warm Front runs across England until 2010. of the issued shares in eaga on behalf of its employees, and together Defra have the option of a two year contract extension.
remain the largest shareholder in the business x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 15:11 Page 7 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 eaga This year we have worked with more Partners, dealt with more customers and been engaged in more communities, than ever before The value for money aspects of our delivery were validated by eaga Advice Services Defras independent auditors, White, Young & Green.
They We have seen extremely encouraging progress in the period from concluded that the Scheme offers excellent value for money: eaga Advice Services, which delivers a range of advice on welfare delivering heating systems more than a third cheaper than the benefits, housing, debt and employment issues.
Revenue in this private sector equivalent and at a level of quality that would be business was up 148% to 5.7 million over the year 2007:2.3 difficult for the private sector to consistently better or match.
The team has now expanded to incorporate more than regular pricing review with Defra under the terms of the Warm 140 dedicated, specialist advisers on the subject of welfare benefit Front contract has continued to ensure that the impact of advice via our Benefit Entitlement Check service and legal support escalating commodity costs in this segment has largely been work via our contract with Community Legal Services Direct.
On the income advisory elements of our work, the team identified We deliver similar schemes to Warm Front in Wales the Home an average increase in income of almost 1,500 per year for those Energy Efficiency Scheme, HEES Wales, for the Wales Assembly homes going on to claim additional benefits.
This should be set in Government and Northern Ireland the Warm Homes Scheme for context of the fact that the team undertook some 50,000 Benefit the Department for Social Development.
Our contract in Northern Entitlement Checks last year.
Ireland was recently extended to 31 March 2009.
A recent peer review of the welfare advice delivered under our Community Legal Services CLS Direct contract returned the The Digital Switchover Help Scheme highest possible rating, and a commendation from the Chief On 27 February 2008, we announced that the BBC had selected Executive of the Legal Services Commission.
This is the first time eaga as service provider to deliver the Digital Switchover Help such an award has been made for telephone-based advice services Scheme.
eaga was chosen from a shortlist of three outsource of this nature.
Due to the fact that we have consistently been rated providers, following a rigorous tender process.
the top-ranked provider, able to deliver both the requisite quality and volume, we have been offered, and have accepted, additional The Help Scheme has been projected to cost 603 million, of which work over the course of the year as other registered providers have about 500 million has been allocated to the estimated service left the Scheme.
Our contract as service provider is for five years until switchover is completed in early 2013.
Our progress in this area has been entirely organic, with success Up to seven million people will be eligible for support from the driven by the quality of advice provided and the levels of customer Digital Switchover Help Scheme to convert one television set to service delivered.
As global economic conditions become digital during switchover.
People eligible for the Help Scheme are increasingly uncertain: the impact on personal finances, debt those aged 75 and over, those able to get certain disability benefits, and affordability of basic essentials are all drivers for potential or those registered blind or partially sighted.
The Schemes purpose growth in our advice services work.
is to make sure that all eligible people who need help making the switch to digital TV receive the support they need, so they continue Installation Services to receive television after switchover.
Our Installation Services segment delivers into three main markets: Our appointment to manage this Scheme bears out the knowledge, Utility customers: Work carried out under CERT skills and experience we have in delivering outsourced solutions to Managed Services customers: The supply of installation vulnerable customers on a national scale.
services, servicing and maintenance work into the Schemes and The next region to switch to digital will be the ITV Border region, programmes we deliver with the Selkirk transmitter next to switch in November 2008.
Social housing customers: Heating servicing, installation and We have already contacted eligible people in the area and begun maintenance work on behalf of local authorities and social to receive the first orders and install the first round of equipment housing providers across the country in homes.
A rapid escalation in activity is expected as more transmitters make the switch to digital over the next twelve months.
x71226 Rhouse front 8-13 p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front 8-13 p2 cg 5 9 08 14:38 Page 1 8 eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operational Review Installation Services remains a rapidly expanding segment of to developing our existing relationships with other energy suppliers our business, employing over 70% of our near 4,500 staff and and are continuing to explore the possibility of leveraging other 4 accounting for 51% of Group EBITA on 33% of Group revenue energy saving technologies into our CERT delivery.
during the year, compared with 52% and 28% respectively in 2007.
Revenue grew by 57% to 249.1 million 2007: 158.5 Managed Services Customers million and EBITA by 20% to 19.3 million 2007: 16.1 million, We have again seen strong growth in revenues in this area, chiefly reflecting strong organic growth in our established operations due to the peak levels of activity from fuel poverty schemes such as well as a series of strategic acquisitions.
Our in-house contractors have demonstrated their Overall percentage margins in this sector stood at 7.8% 2007: ability to competitively deliver the increased levels of activity that 10.2%.
The reduction in margins reflects a change in the mix of have resulted from the record levels of popularity and activity in activities within the sector, alongside the effect of rising fuel and mainstream Schemes, whilst maintaining a strong focus on service commodity costs over the course of the year.
Our success in winning the regional National Business in individual business areas have been impacted by a number of Awards Customer Focus Award bears this out.
These are discussed within the sections below.
Similarly, the terms of our Welsh contract, which runs to 2010, mirror the arrangement in England, where we carry out a Utility Customers proportion of the required installation of measures ourselves.
CERT commenced on 1 April 2008 and is due to run to March We also retain a strong strategic presence in Scotland as an 2011.
This regulatory obligation requires energy suppliers to important sub-contractor to the main fuel poverty programme achieve twice the level of energy savings through the promotion through our Livingston-based subsidiary eaga Scotland, the of domestic energy efficiency than its predecessor, EEC.
Energy largest installer of domestic insulation in Scotland.
suppliers rely primarily on loft and cavity wall insulation as the most cost-effective route to achieving these savings: however We have seen increased demand for our contact centre and inalternative solutions such as external wall insulation and household house energy assessment services, as part of record numbers of renewables are also heavily incentivised under CERT.
In this regard, homes being serviced by fuel poverty Schemes.
Last year alone, the acquisition of Horrocks and Howe, two of the leading external our contact centre was dealing with more than 50,000 calls per wall insulation providers in the UK, represent an excellent strategic week during the winter months, and we carried out more than fit for our future growth plans.
The incentives provided for 300,000 in-house energy assessments over the period.
household-level renewables also bodes well for expansion in our Installation Services segment, particularly within our The year has also shown ongoing growth in demand within renewables business.
our emergency breakdown and servicing business, WarmSure, a 5 joint venture with Ideal Boilers Limited, part of the Ideal Stelrad The CERT market is estimated to be worth 2.8bn over the next Group.
As an indication of the scale of our work in this area, our three years, and we have taken a number of substantive steps WarmSure venture alone will take over one million calls this year, to secure our significant market share over recent months.
visiting an average of 50,000 homes every month delivering a We opted to maintain a small element of excess delivery capacity range of servicing, maintenance and emergency callouts.
during our second and third quarters, which had a consequent The offer of vertically integrated solutions to customers will effect on end margins in this area.
The decision to absorb these continue to present further opportunities for the development costs has been borne out by our subsequent strong position in of Installation Services operations in other sectors.
Our close the midst of an acceleration in demand from our energy supplier control over the respective quality, safety and compliance provided customers.
As anticipated, we are seeing record volumes of by in-house capacity into schemes such as Warm Front has added work under CERT and are in a strong position to maintain this value to the overall delivery of these contracts, and has provided development and expansion in the current year.
the opportunity over the year to rigorously control and verify the We announced that framework agreements were in place with value for money delivered.
each of the major UK energy suppliers to deliver a proportion of their target under CERT.
These framework agreements allow us to Social Housing Customers work closely with each of the suppliers in delivering savings across The acquisitions of RG Francis and AFR have extended our all areas of our business.
geographic coverage and largely completed our desired footprint.
This was followed shortly after our year-end by the announcement This means that our delivery platform is now mostly complete, of an agreement with Scottish Power on a contract, worth in excess and we are focused on integrating and leveraging this platform of 200 million over three years, for the outsourced management to continue our progress in a currently fragmented marketplace.
and delivery of its entire CERT obligation.
This agreement Our share of the social housing market has grown from a position represented the first of its kind within the CERT market, and of having 170,000 boilers under maintenance and servicing capitalises on eagas broad suite of skills, in relation to customer contracts at the end of last year to the current position of having understanding, targeting and management.
circa 200,000 boilers under contract at year-end.
We have faced Collectively, these CERT agreements provide strong visibility of a number of challenges in the operation of this business.
In part, revenues as we move forward, and position us well for further the start-up costs relating to a small number of our organic contract wins, largely being delivered by RG Francis, were higher than growth and expansion within this market.
We remain committed 4 Revenues are quoted gross of inter segment revenues 5 See footnote 1 for reference on Government estimates x71226 Rhouse front 8-13 p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front 8-13 p2 cg 5 9 08 16:25 Page 2 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 eaga Operational Review expected.
We have therefore identified restructuring opportunities major water companies, position the Group well for profitable growth in this area.
in our cost base within Installation Services.
We also experienced some delay in anticipated volumes on heating system replacement In addition, the launch of eaga ShowerSmart demonstrates the activity as social housing customers sought to slow the rate of potential for joining up work on energy efficiency with water boiler replacement activity.
efficiency to deal holistically with sustainability.
We remain well We are well advanced in the process of addressing these issues.
placed to develop this further as we continue to grow.
We have examined and are carefully managing our cost base to address these points and have continued to work hard with our Fulfilment & Warranty Care customers, through regular negotiation and periodic pricing Our Fulfilment business, which is focused on the procurement and reviews, to maintain our commercial position.
delivery of low-energy, compact fluorescent light bulbs CFLs, last year supplied over eight million of these CFLs, either through In spite of the challenges outlined in this sector, we have not wavered from our assessment that this remains an attractive Schemes delivered in Managed Services or CERT-facing commitments.
We announced in June 2008 that we had agreed a partnership with marketplace: one that is currently fragmented but has sizeable opportunities for profitable rationalisation and expansion.
eDF Energy and The Housing Corporation to deliver eight million CFLs to vulnerable households over the next twelve months: which demonstrates the scalability and size of this operation.
Specialist Support Services 6 This segment accounted for 10% of our revenue in 2008 Our Warranty Care services include the provision of insurance- 2007: 9% and 27% of EBITA 2007: 24%.
Revenue increased backed two-year warranties for heating systems installed under fuel to 77.0 million 2007: 49.3 million, principally from additional poverty Schemes.
Annual service visits and repair and maintenance sales to energy suppliers to meet their EEC obligations, with work are undertaken chiefly by our WarmSure joint venture, EBITA rising to 10.1 million 2007: 7.6 million.
supported by third party providers.
The potential for future development and expansion within our Brokerage Services Specialist Support Services segment is strong.
We have already Our Brokerage Services business enables the interaction between signed four agreements under the Clean Development Mechanism Managed Services and utility companies in the delivery of energy involving carbon saving projects in India.
This is one area that sits savings.
This effectively increases the cash available for continued well with our core business strengths, and we are actively exploring initiatives to eradicate fuel poverty and ensures householders opportunities for further profitable expansion.
Future opportunities With CERT proceeding at double the level of its predecessor, EEC, the demand from utilities in this area remains strong.
There can be no doubt that the environmental, social, economic and technological changes that are shaping our world are considerable, wide-ranging and increasingly visible.
As a society eaga Water Services we must, in the next 50 years, achieve a transition to low-carbon There is significant interest in the provision of water efficiency lifestyles in an inclusive way by deploying support, incentives and solutions, with a particular focus on water affordability as bills further regulation.
In practice, a major element of that transition, increase.
eaga Water Services works with utility companies and for reasons of cost-effectiveness, will be achieved by significantly Central Government in delivering a range of tailored water adapting and retrofitting our existing homes.
efficiency measures that can reduce consumption and lower household bills in a sustainable way.
Adapting to these changes in an inclusive way remains a critical part of the process, which positions eaga well as an established provider The development of our Water Services business over the last of solutions in these areas for all social groups, but particularly those twelve months has been bolstered by the launch of eaga ShowerSmart, a pressure-independent flow restrictor device that who are vulnerable and disadvantaged.
has now successfully completed a rigorous testing regime to gain eagas success has been built on doing everything we can reasonably approval under CERT.
The gaining of this approval has opened the do to change and improve the lives of the customers and opportunity to leverage the product into our other key markets, communities we serve.
In the services we manage and in the and continues our development as a one-stop-shop for retrofitted, thousands of homes we visit every week, our focus will not waver domestic sustainability solutions.
from the relentless pursuit of market leading customer The device is typically fitted in-line with existing showers, understanding and world class service.
and reduces the amount of hot water used, usually without a With a strong first year as a listed company behind us, I remain perceptible difference in flow rate.
This leads to a saving in energy bills as the energy used to heat hot water for showers confident that eaga has the business model, unique operating also reduces.
Estimates indicate that the device could save 30 culture and the right people to deliver on the full range of our a year off the average energy bill and a similar amount from ambitious operational, strategic and financial goals as we move 7 the average water bill.
forward into the current year and beyond.
Commercial returns in Water Services continue to depend on securing adequate scale, but this clear diversification of our product John Clough MBE portfolio, allied with our continuing positive relationships with Chief Executive 6 7 Revenues are quoted gross of inter segment revenues Based on family of four living in a metered home
