40 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Group Operating Committee Mark Harper Steve Crummett Jon Green Chief Executive Group Finance Director Company Secretary and General Counsel The biographical details of Mark Harper The biographical details of Steve Jon Green, a solicitor, joined Filtrona in are shown on page 42.
Crummett are shown on page 43.
March 2005 to assist in the demerger process.
He was appointed Company Secretary in July 2005.
Prior to Filtrona he worked as an inhouse lawyer for several large international businesses, including Unilever and Hays plc.
Jon is a member of the Executive Committee and Chairman of the Risk Management Committee.
His is also a member of Filtronas UK Pension Trustee Board.
Rob Purcell Tony Edwards Neil Shillingford Managing Director Managing Director President Protection and Finishing Products Coated and Security Products Plastic Profile and Sheet Rob Purcell joined the Moss business Tony Edwards was previously finance Neil Shillingford, President of Filtrona in 1996 from Low and Bonar where he director of the Payne business when it Extrusion, joined the Company in had been managing director of their was bought from Norcros plc in 1996. operations from Gillette and now has technical textiles business.
Rob became Tony is a Chartered Accountant having 21 years of service within Filtrona.
Neil responsible for the entire Protection and qualified with Price Waterhouse in 1988. has performed a number of general Finishing Products division in 2003.
Rob Prior to joining Payne in 1993 he worked management roles over those 21 years has been a Trustee of Filtrona Pension for Rio Tinto plc.
Tony became Finance and was appointed to his current Schemes for a number of years.
Director of the Filtrona business area position in 2005. within Bunzl and was appointed to his current role in 2002.
41 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Alan Tidy Director of Group Human Resources Alan Tidy joined Filtrona as Director of Group Human Resources upon the demerger from Bunzl plc in 2005.
He was previously group HR director at Wagon plc and prior to that held divisional HR roles within Caradon plc and Rio Tinto plc.
Alan is a member of the Executive Committee and Chairman of Filtronas UK Pension Trustee Boards and of the Filtrona Group Health, Safety and Environment Council.
He is a Chartered Member of the Institute of Personnel and Development.
P T Sreekumar Russ Rogers Managing Director President Filter Products Porous Technologies PT Sreekumar joined Filtrona from Russ Rogers, President of Porous Godfrey Philips, an Indian tobacco Technologies, joined the Company with company, in 1995.
PT Sreekumar was the acquisition of the American Filtrona initially responsible for the Indian joint Corporation in September 1997 and venture within Filtrona.
In 2002 he was performed increasingly important roles appointed as Regional Director for Asia in engineering, logistics, purchasing Pacific responsible for the business in and manufacturing before being Asia and the Middle East before moving appointed President in June 2003. into his current role early in 2005.
