Operating Review The Groups operations continued to focus to 4.0mt, and now constitutes 44% of Highlights on the improvement of product quality FPMs total production 42% in 2007, and operating efficiency in 2008.
Record consistent with our commitment to production was achieved for most of the quality enhancement and our value Iron ore pellet production year and following demand reductions in in use marketing strategy.
from the Groups own ore November and December the operations responded quickly, reducing unit costs 427.6kt of pellets were produced from only slightly lower at 8.6mt and temporarily reducing production whilst purchased ore and concentrate in 2008 8.5% increase in production pushing up pellet quality.
to fill our surplus pelletising capacity.
This of high quality 65% Fe occurred in the first nine months of the The managed reduction in output resulted year when this generated sufficient margin pellets in a slight decline in total pellet production but was scaled down due to the slowdown Substantial reductions in of 0.4% for the full year after a record 10 in demand and the consequent switch to use of raw materials and month period to October.
the sale of the much higher margin pellets energy per unit of output produced from our own ore. As a result the mine produced 27.8mt of Dewatering, infrastructure iron ore in 2008, 4.0% less than in the Business Improvement and power established at previous year.
Selective mining techniques Programme BIP Yeristovskoye deposit increased the proportion of rich K22 ore Following a three year period of skills mined by 3.0%.
This increase in the overall transfer by GPR Dehler the managers Two draglines delivered and quality of the ore increased the operational and employees of FPM are now leading assembled efficiency of the concentrating plant, the successful BIP forward.
We have thereby improving pellet quality as completed a wide range of BIP workshops, measured by the proportion of higher building on the culture of continuous grade pellets produced.
We have continued to see positive results from the BIP, which As a result of the above actions, for the fifth continues to be a priority for management year in a row we were able to substantially in respect of both short and long-term increase our production of higher quality objectives and KPIs.
FPM continues to 65% Fe pellets.
Production of 65% Fe move towards global best practice across pellets from own ore increased by 8.5% its operations.
Operating costs continued to benefit from We intend to recommence our growth efficiency gains in the production process projects as soon as circumstances allow, and from reducing oil and steel prices and we expect full value to be realised for along with local currency devaluation late the expenditure to date.
DTP Terrassement S. A. France DTP BIP-related and other efficiency gains and the project management alliance with enabled us to reduce the rates of Worley Parsons Europe Limited WP are consumption of energy and raw materials being maintained at a low level of activity in in 2008.
Consumption per tonne of pellets order to retain growth options.
We are also produced from own ore for electricity, supporting a minimal corporate subsidiary natural gas and diesel all improved by presence in Ukraine for DTP and WP between 1% and 3%.
Efficiency as a base from which to rebuild project programmes also resulted in a reduction momentum should the outlook improve of the average number of employees during 2009. at FPM by 10% in 2008, although as a result of management actions no forced Activity continues at the pushback of the redundancies were necessary during the current GPL open pit.
Overall, 8,243 people were employed on schedule and within budget prior to it by FPM as of 31 December 2008. being scaled back in October and remains a priority once markets stabilise.
The Further detail on the Groups employment expansion enables us to take advantage costs is available in note 41 to the of currently under-utilised processing accounts.
It will increase production of 65% Fe pellets by approximately 15%.
Growth projects Of the original US$158 million of capital As previously outlined, the Group has three expenditure committed to this project major growth projects: in 2007, US$58 million remains to be The expansion of the current GPL invested, primarily on stripping works.
open pit mine The GPL concentrator plant upgrade The DFS for the GPL concentrator The new Yeristovskoye mine, plant upgrade was also completed in processing plant and pelletising facility September.
This project will enable all the Groups mined ore to be processed into We also have planned developments at the 65% Fe pellets and will potentially allow the Belanovskoye and Galeshchina deposits production of Direct Reduction DR grade which are less advanced.
65% Fe pellets enjoy more robust demand, and DR pellets Significant work has been completed in would constitute a new premium product 2008 to allow access to the substantial for Ferrexpo which we could sell into undeveloped resources located adjacent world markets and in particular the to the existing operations.
The DFS was Middle East, a growth market which completed for the Yeristovskoye project can be easily supplied.
in September and initial low level stripping operations commenced in December A Preliminary Feasibility Assessment for along with the establishment of a small the Belanovskoye mine was completed in project team, and a legal and managerial September, and work also continued on infrastructure.
The scope of the initial development options for Galeshchina, the pre-stripping operation has been scaled next deposit to the north of Belanovskoye.
down at the current time pending further The Yeristovskoye and Belanovskoye reviews in 2009: however operational growth projects both remain a priority for expenditure and small future commitments the Group, as they continue to represent are being made at a limited level to enable an attractive option for the expansion the value of the project to be maintained of the Groups existing business as they and to minimise delays to the original will enable access to our extensive development schedule.
Because these developments will take place on the The capital expenditure for these projects same ore body currently being exploited by was estimated at the peak of the the Group and their situation adjacent to commodity cycle and consequently our existing logistics infrastructure, these we believe that DFS capital costs will investments represent low risk additions of be significantly reduced when final new iron ore capacity compared to many 18 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 of the iron ore projects that have been the remainder sold into Central and As a result, we sold some iron ore pellets announced worldwide.
An analysis in Q4 on shorter-term contracts consistent of sales by market is contained in note 6 with the terms of trade in these markets, Strategic Investor Programme to the accounts.
In the fourth quarter During 2008 we identified several potential we therefore increased spot sales to strategic investors.
This was done in order The following table shows our principal mitigate the effect of the deferrals from to share the risk of our development export markets for iron ore pellets for the contract customers, although these sales projects, which are substantial for a years ended 31 December 2008 and 2007 were made at lower prices than those company of Ferrexpos size, by providing by volume : under contract.
We expect that the some of the additional funding and proportion of sales that will be made under 000t 2008 2007 execution capability required to progress long-term contracts in 2009 may be lower our growth plans on an aggressive than in 2008, as a result of weaker steel Traditional Markets 5,780.8 5,900.7 timetable.
This reached an advanced demand in the first quarter.
We Natural Markets 323.2 187.9 stage but was placed on hold following nevertheless remain committed to the Growth Markets 1,558.4 1,576.0 severe falls in the valuations ascribed to strategy of maintaining a high level of the Total 7,662.4 7,664.6 commodity based companies in late 2008.
Groups sales under long-term contract.
Approximately 87.7% of our 2008 sales by All of the potential Strategic Investors We are well positioned to increase market volume were made pursuant to long-term on the shortlist have reiterated their share in 2009 particularly with our contract supply contracts, a lower level of contract willingness to continue to participate in the customers in our Traditional Markets, as a sales to that seen in 2007 due to increased process once market conditions improve.
result of our proximity to these customers.
spot selling in the fourth quarter in Our ability to provide small-packet response to deferrals from contract Marketing just-in-time deliveries to these customers customers.
We commenced our first Marketing performance in 2008 is an attractive quality to those companies long-term contract with a Turkish steel mill In 2008, 88.0% of our output by volume that are engaged in careful inventory in 2008, and have continued to supply our was exported 2007: 81.0% The share management.
Ferrexpo will continue to major customers in Eastern and Central of pellet sales to Ukrainian customers sell aggressively into these markets and Europe and China, building on our track decreased from 19.0% in 2007 to 12.0% in as a small supplier aims to maintain record of solid customer relationships.
2008, primarily as a result of the collapse output by improving market share in of the Ukrainian steel industry and the these key regions.
We announced in late October that we had consequent drop in local demand for iron received requests to defer deliveries from ore from late 2008.
We increased export We will also continue to focus on achieving several of our contract customers from the sales in response to this by actively selling higher prices through enhanced pellet fourth quarter of 2008 to the first quarter of into the spot market in Asia and increasing quality and a better understanding of our 2009, as a result of rapidly falling demand shipments to long-term export customers.
customers requirements of our products.
These deferrals came from Domestic Ukrainian sales are made on This is necessary in order to capture the customers in all of our market segments, an ex-works basis while export sales are maximum price relative to our competitors and particularly in Ukraine, Traditional usually made on a Delivered at Frontier delivered cost to the customer on a value Markets and Growth Markets see DAF or Free on Board FOB basis.
definitions below, and resulted in lower Of the total exported by the Group in 2008 overall full year 2008 sales.
by value, 17.9% was sold into China, with Ferrexpo plc Reserves and Resources The following table sets out the Groups JORC-classified reserves and resources: Reserves Resources incl.
Reserves Proved and probable Measured and indicated Inferred Million Fe grade Million Fe grade Million Fe grade tonnes % tonnes % tonnes %  798 29 1,443 30 1,275 31 Lavrikovskoye 157 32 812 30 174 29 Total Producing Assets 955 30 2,255 30 1,449 31 Yeristovskoye 632 34 765 27 96 17 It should be noted that this table lists only JORC-classified reserves and resources.
The Belanovskoye 1,627 31 37 30 Group also holds the licences to further deposits Galeschinskoye 325 59 29 59 containing approximately 14 billion tonnes of additional iron ore resources classified according Total Projects 632 34 2,717 33 162 27 to the Soviet GKZ Code.
Total All Assets 1,587 32 4,972 32 1,611 30 19 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Business review Operating Review continued Traditional Markets capability in order to meet current and Our Traditional Markets are those markets future growing customer demands.
This that we have supplied historically, and in is a critical contributor to our long-term which we enjoy a competitive advantage market shares and margins.
Our based on our location.
These include 49.9%-owned dry bulk minerals Panamax Austria, Ukraine, Poland, Slovakia, terminal on the Black Sea the TIS-Ruda Romania, Bulgaria and Russia.
The former Terminal-Yuzhny is functioning well, and CIS countries within the Traditional Markets has proven an asset critical to our efforts have been particularly affected by the to increase seaborne sales in the face of adverse conditions in global commodities Traditional Market demand weakness.
We markets, with Ukraine the worst affected, will also continue our programme of railcar given its steel export focus and relatively purchases once development capital high steel production costs.
We believe expenditure is resumed.
that continued growth in per capita steel consumption in many of these markets is Our logistics strategy is to manage likely to resume once stability returns to as much of the delivery chain to our the global economy, as most of them are customers as possible in order to ensure effectively re-industrialising.
Total sales to on-time supply of the contracted quality of Traditional Markets in 2008 were 5,780.8kt, product at the lowest cost.
The total scope a decrease of 2.0% compared to 2007. of our delivery logistics chain includes rail, trans-shipment loading and unloading, Natural Markets barge and ocean vessels.
We expect that Natural Markets are relatively new little material capital will be expended markets for us in regions where we believe in this area until general economic we have a competitive advantage which is conditions improve.
This segment includes Western Europe, Turkey and the Middle Pricing East.
Turkey has plans to significantly We achieved an average DAF FOB price increase its steel making capacity, and for the pellets we sold in 2008 of US$124.6 FPMs proximity across the Black Sea per tonne, an increase of 72% over the affords a significant mutual advantage average achieved price for 2007 US$72.3 to both the Group and iron ore buyers in per tonne.
Most of our export sales are Turkey.
We agreed our first long-term based on annually negotiated prices supply contract with a steel mill in Turkey contained in supplements to our long-term in 2008, and this segment represents a supply contracts.
A proportion of sales major target for future sales growth.
We tonnage is linked to the international are building commercial and technical seaborne traded iron ore benchmark price relationships in the Middle East as a base Benchmark Price movement agreed for our future planned sales as we continue between the major iron ore producers and to improve product quality.
specific Western European or Asian steel producers for a given year.
In 2008 we Growth Markets realised a premium to the Benchmark Growth Markets are those which offer Price, after adjustments for the impact of to add new and significant tonnage freight, quality, proximity and logistics.
The expansion potential to our customer Benchmark Price settlement in April 2008 portfolio.
Currently China is the major reflected an 86.7% increase on the prices target, where five long-term contracts are for iron ore pellets in the previous year.
in place providing a solid base for future Variations in our achieved price stem from sales growth.
We have a shorter shipping price variations of pellets sold into different distance to these markets than competitor geographical segments, as well as the mix iron ores from Brazil.
The region also between our 62% Fe pellets and our 65% provides the primary source of demand Fe pellets which attract a premium.
In the for spot market business, which began fourth quarter of 2008, in order to maintain to see activity again in December 2008 production and margins, we made a higher following a period of fide-stocking by proportion of spot market sales than Chinese steel mills.
These sales were at prices below the contract price level, Logistics which also affected the 2008 average In 2008, we made significant progress achieved price.
in expanding our delivery chain logistics 20 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Pellet premium distant and relatively lower-quality ore The iron ore pellet premium is the price bodies.
The cost of the marginal tonne is paid by purchasers to producers of iron therefore expected to fall in 2009, providing ore pellets such as the Group in excess of some relief to the industry.
In keeping the price of iron ore sinter fines, to reflect with this trend, the Groups cash costs in the fact that pellets have undergone some December were 18.0% lower than the processing.
The Groups pellets are average for the year.
therefore an intermediate product between raw ore and iron, providing productivity In contrast to past economic slowdowns gains in blast furnaces.
Our pellets require and mining industry contractions, the less coke in the steelmaking production supply response to the current crisis has process, beneficial when this is in tight been swift and decisive.
This bodes well supply or relatively highly priced.
The for an equally swift recovery, as it avoids pellet premium also reflects other benefits the build up of inventories which have of using pellets, most notably their historically prevented the recovery of advantages for transporting and increased commodity prices once growth conditions environmental concerns with sinter resume.
In the final quarter of 2008, steel production, particularly for blast furnace producers reduced the amount of iron operators in the European Union.
ore that they purchased in an effort to fide-stock their inventories.
Once this The iron ore pellet premium reached a process is complete, reduced supply record high in Europe of US$0.86 per dry and low inventories should give support metric tonne unit dmtu following the price to stronger iron ore prices.
We expect the premium for our pellets to decline in 2009, Our sales strategy in 2009 will differ from as pellets tend to trade at a very significant that in 2008, as we react to deal with the premium to iron ore fines only when the downturn in the global economy.
We will industry is in a state of undersupply as maintain our strong customer relationships was the case in the first part of 2008.
The and, where possible, use them to increase efficiency gained through the use of pellets our market share position in our Traditional becomes less of a factor when blast and Natural Markets to capitalise on furnaces are not running at full capacity, smaller lot deliveries to customers.
We as is the case currently.
Nonetheless, any believe that, for customers throughout decline in the pellet premium is likely to Central Europe, our products represent be moderated by the transport and an attractive alternative to those of major environmental benefits of using our pellets.
seaborne suppliers due to the lower costs of transporting pellets over a shorter 2009 Marketing strategy distance from Ukraine, together with an Demand in 2009 will depend on the ability to provide many customers with continued growth of steel output in China, a continuous small-parcel delivery chain.
the resumption of steel production in We will also seek to maximise sales Ukraine, and the end to the fide-stocking volumes where possible by taking of iron ore inventories by steel mills and a advantage of potential opportunities return of global steel output to sustainable for seaborne spot sales.
We remain well placed to continue to produce close to capacity and to Corporate social responsibility supply our key customers because of In 2008, we set out to entrench a our proximity to them.
We have made behavioural safety culture at FPM.
significant progress already in increasing Notwithstanding three tragic deaths during our market share to these customers.
the year, considerable progress has been made in this regard.
Our goal in 2009 is Economic conditions are also likely to to continue to strive for improvements result in decreased costs in the industry, across all areas of CSR and especially as inflationary pressures ease.
We continue to work with DuPont a partial reversal of the changes to the cost Safety Resources to achieve these structure of the iron ore industry witnessed priority objectives.
over the past five years as a result of declining availability of direct-charge lump The Groups CSR Review can be found ore and the fact that incremental iron ore on page 26 of this Annual Report.
can only be supplied by increasingly 21 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
