Fidessa group plc Operations review 6 Customers are looking to take additional functionality onto their existing Fidessa platform in order to leverage new market opportunities and implement hosted models in order to reduce the total cost of ownership.
Sell-side trading established itself as a market leader in its understanding of Market conditions were challenging for our sell-side customers fragmentation and its impact on both the buy-side and sell-side, throughout 2008 as the impact of the credit crisis affected the enabling it to provide a series of innovative products to help financial markets.
Some firms collapsed, including Lehman its customers respond to the changing landscape.
This has Brothers which was one of Fidessas 10 largest customers.
Whilst included the launch of the Fidessa Fragmentation Index these collapses resulted in one-off losses as services that had been www.
com which is becoming an delivered were written off, the underlying strength of the equity established metric in the measurement of fragmentation in businesses within these failed firms has made them attractive Europe, and is used as a guide to when a stock may be safely acquisitions and the majority have either been acquired by a traded on a single venue or when an advanced service such as competitor or spun out as a separate firm.
Where this has Fidessas Intelligent Liquidity Access ILA should be used.
happened, Fidessas role as a key technology provider has enabled it to quickly re-sign with the new entity, significantly In Asia Fidessa has continued to make progress, expanding reducing the impact of these events on Fidessa.
its services across the region and signing its first broker based in mainland China as well as firms in Hong Kong and Japan.
Whilst the difficult market conditions mean that Fidessa is seeing Within Asia Fidessa has been particularly successful with the some pressure on pricing for new implementations and renewals, hosted model, as customers see this as the most cost effective it has also created new opportunities as customers consolidate way to support their growth in a complex and geographically more of their trading onto the Fidessa platform in order to save diverse market.
Fidessa views Asia and the Middle East as costs.
Customers are also looking to take additional functionality markets with strong potential and plans to open further offices onto their existing Fidessa platform in order to leverage new in Singapore and Bahrain during 2009 as it extends its market market opportunities and implement hosted models in order to coverage and increases the level of services it provides reduce the total cost of ownership.
Some smaller sell-side firms throughout these regions.
have also benefitted from the market conditions as buy-side customers look to spread their counterparty risk and larger firms During 2008, Fidessa increased its focus on its enterprise and focus more on their core areas of business.
These opportunities, hosted customers by separating support for these different types both at existing and new customers, have helped to drive of customer across two business units and introducing a new Fidessas consultancy revenue, which has grown strongly managed enterprise model.
These changes enable Fidessa to despite the market conditions.
focus on delivering a customised solution to its largest customers, whether they operate Fidessa software on their own site or take Outside the immediate impact of the financial crises, many of the advantage of the efficiencies offered by Fidessas hosting centres.
market drivers that were present in the first half of the year have The changes also allow Fidessa to deliver a more focused continued.
These include the increased fragmentation of liquidity software as a service SaaS approach to its mid-tier and smaller and growing requirements for Direct Liquidity Access DLA, customers.
This new structure will be particularly valuable in the growing interest in multi-asset and cross-asset support and further current market conditions, ensuring Fidessa is able to deliver interest in cross border and non-member trading.
Fidessa has the most cost effective solution to all its customers, regardless of their size and the complexity of their requirements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 Fidessas buy-side customers are focused on reducing their costs and looking for efficiency, whilst also ensuring that they manage risk and compliance in the best possible way.
In 2009, Fidessa expects that many of the drivers it is currently asset managers receive fees based on assets under management seeing will continue.
In particular, Fidessa expects to see further and the market conditions have therefore meant a significant changes in the liquidity landscape, with a number of new MTFs reduction in fee income for these customers.
As a result, Fidessas Multilateral Trading Facilities and dark pools already planning to buy-side customers are focused on reducing their costs and go-live during 2009.
As the competition between the liquidity looking for efficiency, whilst also ensuring that they manage risk venues grows, this is also resulting in new investment by the and compliance in the best possible way.
This has resulted in an traditional exchanges with NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Brse and increased number of buy-side customers taking a Fidessa the Japan Stock Exchange all planning major upgrades to their LatentZero solution, whether this is a simple workstation infrastructure.
All of this will put further pressure on financial firms or a full implementation of the product suite.
In order to manage to upgrade in order to support and take advantage of these their costs, many buy-side firms are also rationalising their use changes, with those taking the Fidessa platform able to respond of technology through consolidation onto a single platform, and in the fastest and most cost effective manner.
In every region this has brought strong interest for fixed income and derivative Fidessa also expects to see more demand for cross-asset trading support across the regions.
Fidessa has made a substantial and global trading, as firms seek to leverage the value of their investment in the Fidessa LatentZero product suite to enhance infrastructure across more markets and instruments.
In particular, support for these asset classes as part of a full asset class solution.
there is a strong requirement for integrated equity options The market conditions have also affected the buy-side trading support within the North American market and Fidessa already desk, whose performance has come under increased scrutiny as has products and infrastructure in place to enable it to deliver to a contributor to fund performance.
With an increased usage of this need during 2009.
Across all markets there is the expectation transaction cost analysis there has also been growing interest that the response to the global financial crisis will involve more from the buy-side in making more use of advanced trading tools rigorous and onerous compliance regulations.
This regulation, and utilising broker algorithmic services.
Support for these tools combined with the changes evolving naturally in the markets, is fully integrated within the Fidessa LatentZero product suite will force more firms, including smaller ones, to implement and it is expected that this will continue to be a growth area better technology to ensure that they can continue to operate going forward.
Fidessas products will ensure that it is at the forefront of this move, enabling all its customers to benefit from As a result of recent events in the market, there is a heightened market opportunity without being stifled by the complexity of awareness within the buy-side around counterparty and issuer risk compliance regulation.
This is combining with the expectation that compliance requirements will become more stringent across the board, to Buy-side trading drive requirements for strong compliance solutions which can Within the buy-side community the effect of the market help ensure compliance and manage risk at every stage of the conditions has been less immediate than in the sell-side with the investment process.
Fidessa LatentZeros compliance solutions initial impact falling mainly on the hedge fund community which are particularly well positioned in this area and Fidessa expects forms a small part of Fidessas customer base.
However, many to see increased interest in these products throughout 2009.
Fidessa group plc 8 Operations review continued The provision of fast, comprehensive and accurate market information is increasingly important for any successful trading solution.
During 2008 there has been a trend within larger asset managers all of which become additional sources of data that financial to look more closely at the tools they are using, with a view to markets participants require.
In 2008 Fidessa has continued to making a strategic investment in an integrated workflow expand the breadth of markets for which it provides content.
This thinking recognises both the value that the right This new coverage includes the addition of new venues within platform can deliver, as well as the disruption that is caused to the existing regions, as well as extending Fidessas coverage further business by replacing point solutions on a regular basis.
To support by adding markets for new regions such as Latin America and this move Fidessa LatentZero has introduced a new delivery mainland China.
In total, during 2008, Fidessa has added support model, taking greater ownership for the delivery and operation of for around 20 new trading venues across the world and expects the full product suite.
This new model capitalises on the strategic further expansion of its data coverage during 2009. relationships Fidessa LatentZero has with its customers and ensures that the customer is getting the best out of the products.
As well as broadening the data coverage offered, Fidessa has also It also enables Fidessa LatentZero to focus its strategic continued to invest in the delivery infrastructure itself.
Automated development resource onto the key areas required by these and algorithmic trading systems are data intensive and require leading buy-side firms.
ultra-fast access so that they can monitor and act on price movements without delay.
In parallel with this the volatile markets Throughout 2008 Fidessa LatentZero has continued to develop and the changing trading landscape have all contributed to a its presence in the Asian market from Fidessas bases in Japan continual increase in data volumes.
In Europe alone the volume and Hong Kong and has already signed its first buy-side clients in of market data going through Fidessas data infrastructure has the region.
The pipeline for this region continues to look strong, peaked at levels two or three times those seen in 2007.
Trading and in 2009 the new office in Singapore will support this venues are upgrading their systems to cope with their own continued expansion.
volumes, and in June 2008 the London Stock Exchange LSE launched its new Performance Channels service aimed at Market data delivering ultra low-latency data for its market throughout As the trading strategies of both the buy-side and sell-side become the trading day.
Fidessas modern architecture, which allows more global and sophisticated in nature, and the demands of it to scale its data delivery platform to accommodate these automated and algorithmic trading systems continue to rise, the requirements, was able to handle this new service, successfully provision of fast, comprehensive and accurate market information delivering it into production for over 200 clients on the very first is increasingly important for any successful trading solution.
Market data is key to any investment or trading decision, and so Fidessa expects that the volume of market data will continue to the need for low-latency, highly resilient solutions that can scale increase during 2009 and that its data service will become an with the increasing volumes that highly volatile markets can increasingly important and cost effective option for its customers.
Additionally, the market landscape is Fidessa plans to continue further investment in this service changing, fuelled by regulatory changes such as MiFID in Europe throughout 2009, increasing both the number of venues and RegNMS in the US, there are numerous new trading venues supported and the capacity of its infrastructure.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9 The Fidessa Connectivity Network is now firmly established and recognised as a leading solution in this space.
Global connectivity to a typical level of around 180 million messages a month.
This As the number of trading venues around the world continues increase in volume is in part due to more and more clients making to grow, and both buy-side and sell-side businesses take a more heavier use of Fidessas connectivity solution, but is also a result global approach to trading, the importance of comprehensive of market volatility and changing trading patterns, with activities and resilient connectivity to global markets increases.
like the use of algorithmic trading strategies generating significant increases in their own right.
Brokers require electronic connectivity to their buy-side clients for order flow, and continue to expand and enhance the The Fidessa Connectivity Network is now firmly established and electronic services and coverage that they offer to their clients.
recognised as a leading solution in this space.
Fidessa prides itself Buy-side firms, from niche hedge funds to the larger traditional on having the highly specialised skills and scale that are needed asset managers, also demand electronic connectivity to allow to operate and evolve this service, and expects to see continued the fastest access to markets and services across the world.
growth in demand for it from both the buy-side and sell-side.
Consequently, the provision of a broad connectivity solution to a Advanced trading tools wide range of customers, whether or not they are users of other Fidessa services, continues to be an important and increasingly The structure of the worlds financial markets is undergoing fundamental change.
Fuelled by new regulation, changes in strategic piece of Fidessas offering.
investment style, the emergence of new trading venues and increasing consolidation and competition amongst traditional In 2008 Fidessa continued the expansion of the Fidessa Connectivity Network adding more destinations, new geographic exchanges, the choices available to both buy-side and sell-side traders are becoming increasingly complex.
As a result, the need coverage and further asset-class support.
The number of connected parties has increased by nearly 50%, with over 7,700 for sophisticated tools to support automated trading strategies, navigate this evolving market structure and minimise market connections across 360 brokers, 2,200 buy-sides and 115 markets around the globe.
Recent regulatory changes have helped fuel the impact is becoming paramount.
emergence of new venues and the corresponding fragmentation of liquidity, with nine new liquidity venues for equity trading in In North America, fragmented liquidity has been a feature of the marketplace for some time.
However, the increase in dark pools Europe alone and yet more in the pipeline.
Fidessa expects that the growth in liquidity venues will continue, with many of those and a growing thirst for access to international markets has added new dimensions to the trading landscape.
In addition, there is already established in North America and Europe now looking to expand into new regions with a particular emphasis on Asia.
increasing demand from the buy-side for faster direct market access and more active involvement in algorithmic strategies.
As well as expanding its coverage, Fidessa has also continued This is also further defining the shape of services that the broker dealers need to offer in order to compete.
to invest in the infrastructure used to provide this low-latency, fully-managed connectivity service to its clients.
This has been driven by the continued increase in activity Fidessa has seen on its network, with volumes during 2008 increasing by 80%, Fidessa group plc 10 Operations review continued In 2009 Fidessa expects to see continued client interest in its suite of advanced trading tools, as the markets continue to evolve and fragment.
In Europe, fragmentation of liquidity is relatively new, but growing defining these services so carefully and to the value added nature quickly, brought about by the MiFID regulation that came into of the solution.
In 2009 Fidessa plans to make more of its force in late 2007.
Numerous trading venues, with new competitive advanced trading tools available in Asia through its hosted pricing models, have appeared in 2008, offering new places platform, as the structure of Asian markets evolves along similar to trade existing instruments.
This has added a new complexity lines to the rest of the world.
to finding available liquidity and ensuring execution at the best possible price.
Also in 2008, Fidessa launched a suite of ultra-fast, direct liquidity access services for the sell-side in North America, enabling them In Asia, the growth in electronic trading across the region is to satisfy the growing desire from the buy-side for more control attracting the attention of these new liquidity providers from over their trading.
These services allow the brokers to offer highNorth America and Europe, as they seek to take of advantage of performance, sponsored multi-market access to their customers, regulatory changes and set up in competition to the incumbent as well as providing these clients with direct control exchanges.
Additionally, local institutions are looking to compete of the algorithmic trading strategies that they can support.
With with the larger global players, and so want to diversify and offer more than 10 clients already signed to take these services, and similar sophisticated trading services with international reach.
significant interest in them from the marketplace as a whole, this demonstrates the strength of the Fidessa solution in being In 2008, Fidessa launched its ILA strategy, which brings together able to package together high-performance, sophisticated a series of new and existing trading tools and services under one services to leverage market opportunities as they arise.
banner, aimed at meeting the needs of both buy-side and sell-side as they operate in this evolving and complex world.
In 2009 Fidessa expects to see continued client interest in its suite of advanced trading tools, as the markets continue to evolve Although several vendors offer connectivity to a number of the and fragment.
In particular, Fidessa expects to see the new ILA new venues, Fidessa has spent a great deal of time and effort and direct market access initiatives launched in 2008 continuing understanding the real needs of market participants and how to be of interest in Europe and the North America with further they want to interact with this new marketplace.
By providing opportunities throughout the world.
powerful tools that seek out all available liquidity and intelligently route orders across multiple venues accordingly, much of the burden presented by this new world can be automated, freeing up traders to focus on the more demanding trading decisions.
Over the last 12 months, Fidessa has signed 28 clients for ILA tools in Europe, which is testament to the effort made in
