Chief Executives operating review This has been a year of significant achievement with record performance across all of our businesses.
Our balanced portfolio of operations continues to generate strong operating cash flows with good opportunities for future growth.
Overview however, we are never complacent.
This is a North America Safety process of continuous improvement and we The Group is the leading provider Safety is the cornerstone of our business.
The continually seek to find ways to improve our of transportation services in North provision of safe and secure services for our practices to provide the safest services for America.
First Student is now the largest passengers and staff underpins everything passengers and staff.
provider of student transportation with we do.
This year we made further progress approximately 60,000 yellow school to embed a culture of safety throughout the Results buses operating across the US and Group and rigorously apply a zero tolerance I am delighted to report another year of record Canada.
We also operate a transit stance on unsafe acts and practices.
Our goal trading across the Group with results in line contracting and management business, is to be known as the leader in our industry in with our expectations.
These results include, a vehicle fleet maintenance and support this area.
During the year we introduced a for the first time, a contribution from former services division and Greyhound, the number of initiatives and policies, such as a Laidlaw businesses following our completion only national provider of intercity coach Group-wide mobile phone ban while driving of the acquisition at the beginning of the services in the US and Canada.
on company business, which we believe will second half of this trading year.
Group revenue contribute to a safer environment.
One of our increased by 26.9% to 4,707.6m 2007: Results key priorities this year was to ensure the timely 3,708.8m.
Adjusted operating profit rose We were delighted to receive the necessary roll-out of best practice to our new North to 360.1m 2007: 259.2m an increase of regulatory approvals to enable us to complete American operations.
The Group operating margin increased our $3.5bn including transaction costs that our Injury Prevention programme was to 7.6% 2007: 7.0%.
Profit before tax was acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc. on implemented across the enlarged FirstGroup 151.9m 2007: 140.2m.
This transformational America business within one month of record adjusted EBITDA adjusted operating acquisition establishes us as the market leader completing the acquisition, promoting profit plus depreciation growth of 40.6% to in North America and provides a stronger proactive communication on safety issues 560.8m 2007: 398.9m.
This continued platform to develop in this attractive market.
I am committed strong performance enabled us to make to supporting safety as the highest priority targeted capital investment in the business at every level in our organisation.
During the and increase annual dividends by 10% for year we continued to make good progress, the fourth consecutive year.
Our entry to the FTSE 00 demonstrates the strength of the Group which has grown to become the market leader in the UK and North America in less than 20 years.
4 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review The key focus for our North American Integration update which will enable us to deliver an efficient, operations has been to ensure the timely Since we acquired Laidlaw in October last consistent level of service and operational and efficient integration of the new business year, we have worked hard to implement our performance.
I am pleased to report that is a substantial task and I am pleased to we have made excellent progress and have The first phase of our branch consolidation report that we have made good progress in completed our initial key priorities.
We have strategy is now complete.
Where we have implementing our integration plans.
Dean restructured the organisations to establish former Laidlaw sites within a close proximity to Finch has been seconded to North America a single management board and one head First Student locations we are, in some cases, as Chief Operating Officer and under his office.
A great deal of work has been done able to consolidate the operations to deliver leadership we are well advanced with our to harmonise financial, operational and efficiencies, improve facilities and reduce plans to leverage value through our scale and safety systems and processes to ensure property overheads.
We believe there is further continue to grow earnings through improved effective management and control of the scope to consolidate branch operations and operating efficiencies and the extraction of enlarged business.
improve our offering to customers and we substantial synergies.
are focused on a medium-term strategy to deliver this goal.
During the period we also I am pleased to report that we This has been a period of significant change progressed our plans to rationalise the spare have made excellent progress within our North American operations as we bus fleet across the combined student and have completed our initial integrate two businesses and cultures.
Both First Student and Laidlaw key priorities.
results include a six month contribution from carried an excess spare fleet, which by the enlarged North American business combining the businesses, we were able to including the former Laidlaw operations.
Both reduce without impacting service quality.
In addition to the consolidation of school bus and Greyhound businesses are We are well advanced with our plans to reduce headquarters, which resulted in the closure of highly seasonal.
First Student generates a our fleet by 2,000 buses without an impact Laidlaws corporate office, the former Laidlaw greater proportion of its revenue and earnings to service quality.
school bus and Transit head office locations in the second half of the year and Greyhound have been closed and their operations fully has a bias towards the first half, with a greater During the integration process a key priority integrated into FirstGroup America.
We have proportion of its revenue and earnings is to ensure that none of our activities disrupt secured new, larger office space in Cincinnati achieved during the summer months.
the operations of the business or negatively to accommodate the increased number of impact relationships with customers.
We have employees and achieve the benefits of Revenue from our four businesses of Student, carried out an extensive customer satisfaction operating Student, Transit and Services Transit, Services and Greyhound was survey engaging with over 1,500 customers, businesses from one location.
New regional 1,651.1m or $3,319.0m 2007: 802.9m the output of which will continue to inform our structures have been implemented for the or $1,522.4m.
Operating profit increased to strategy for service provision.
enlarged Student and Transit businesses 139.5m or $280.3m 2007: 68.2m or $130.5m representing an increase of 115% at constant exchange rates.
Research shows that using your phone A key priority during the integration of while driving makes you four times our enlarged North American business is more likely to have an accident.
Thats to maintain our high record of customer why we have banned all our staff from retention.
First Student successfully using hands free mobile phones when retained over 90% of contracts that came driving on company business.
up for bid during the year.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 Spotlight on integration This has been a busy and exciting time for the Group.
During the year we completed the acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc. which transformed our business and established the Group as the leading provider of transportation in North America.
Market context Strategy The North America transportation market is vast and fragmented.
Our strategy is to continue to provide safe, high quality services for More than 500,000 yellow school buses transport students to customers: create value through leveraging scale and increase earnings and from school every day across the US and Canada.
In bringing through improved operating efficiencies and the delivery of substantial together FirstGroup America and Laidlaw we have created a stronger, synergies.
We have created a solid platform to make a compelling more robust business operating in a large, fragmented marketplace service offering to new and existing customers through a high quality with clear opportunities for growth.
operation, a greater range of services and products, operational and cost efficiencies and scale economies.
Integration Since we acquired the business in October last year, we have 4 We have advanced our plans to roll-out best practice.
A key priority worked hard to implement our integration plans.
We have made is to ensure that all operations meet our high standards of safety and excellent progress so far and have already completed our initial security.
We appointed experts from both companies, together with key priorities: industry specialists, to identify the best safety practices to be used by the combined business.
Within one month of the acquisition closing we rolled out the First Safety Principles and Injury Prevention and distributed 1 We have established a new, single management board and head office high-visibility vests to all operating locations.
Financial, operational and safety systems and processes have been harmonised to ensure effective management and control of the enlarged business.
5 With an annual third party expenditure of $1.8bn, the combined business has a considerable opportunity to generate cost savings and benefits of scale from procurement synergies.
We implemented a formal programme 2 The headquarters of the former Laidlaw operations have been closed to analyse annual expenditure and identify areas with potential to achieve and their operations fully integrated into FirstGroup America.
New regional significant cost savings.
To date we have targeted product and contract structures have also been implemented for the enlarged Student and requirements for fuel, vehicles, parts and services and have completed Transit businesses to deliver an efficient, consistent level of service and supplier negotiations for the first phase of contracts.
6 During the integration process a key priority is to ensure that none of our 3 We have completed the first phase of our branch consolidation strategy integration activities could disrupt the operations of the business or negatively where some former Laidlaw sites, within a close proximity to First Student impact relationships with customers.
We have carried out an extensive locations, have been consolidated into one operation to deliver efficiencies, customer satisfaction survey engaging with over 1,500 customers, the output improve facilities and reduce property overheads.
of which will continue to inform our strategy for service provision.
Revenue Adjusted operating profit 150 150 20002000 39.5m, 65. m 4 divisions: Synergies: 120 120 15001500 90 90 Student $150m 68.2m 10001000 60,000 99,000 802.9m Transit per annum 60 60 yellow employees Services 500f500rom April school buses 30 30 Greyhound 2009 0 0 0 0 06 07 07 08 06 07 07 08 Includes a six month contribution from the Laidlaw acquisition 6 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Chief Executives operating review continued We are well advanced with our plans to roll-out The combined business has an annual third and expect to achieve synergies of $150m best practice across the business as part of party expenditure of $1.8bn.
This provides per annum from April 2009. our commitment to ensure that all of our considerable opportunity to generate cost operations meet our high standards of safety savings and benefits of scale from First Student and security.
We appointed experts from both procurement synergies.
We have implemented We operate approximately 60,000 yellow companies together with external specialists to a formal programme to analyse annual school buses providing home to school identify the best safety practices to be used by expenditure and identify areas where there is transport on behalf of school boards and the combined business.
Within one month of potential to achieve significant improvements authorities across the US and Canada.
the acquisition closing we rolled out the First to existing purchasing activity.
To date the Contracts are usually for between three and Safety Principles and Injury Prevention to all team has targeted product and contract five years and I am pleased to report that operating locations.
A substantial re-branding requirements for fuel, vehicles, parts and during the year we continued our strong programme, to bring former Laidlaw operations services and has completed supplier retention record with First Student retaining in step with the First brand, will be completed negotiations for the first phase of contracts.
over 90% of contracts that came up by July 2008.
This is a substantial programme and will take for renewal.
some time to realise the full benefits.
Further Combining the businesses enables First work is ongoing to ensure that we lever the During the year US Dollar revenue increased Student to make a compelling offering to strengths of the new company so that we by 118.6% and operating profit by 127.5% customers.
Our scale enables us to develop can share the benefits with our customers and the operating margin increased to 11.3% systems and software to provide an enhanced and stakeholders.
Our focus is to deliver safe, level of service for customers and differentiate high quality services and embed processes our business from our competitors.
We have to tightly control the cost base and achieve During the year we continued conducted a best practice review of both productivity efficiencies.
While progressing our strong retention record FirstGroup America and Laidlaw GPS-based the roll-out of Zonar, GPS equipment that will with First Student retaining operational systems and established a strategy deliver safety and efficiency improvements, over 90% of contracts that to integrate the systems and to provide we have also conducted a best practice analytical and operational tools to improve our came up for renewal.
review of First Student and former Laidlaw operations, deliver greater efficiencies and Education Services to establish a strategy for provide us with a competitive edge in offering incorporating separate GPS-based operational I am very pleased with the progress so far and additional services to our customers.
First Student now believe that we have successfully achieved all operates in 40 States in the US and nine of our early priorities.
We will continue to build Provinces in Canada and the scale of our on this excellent progress and momentum business creates a significant opportunity to to ensure the successful integration of our establish protocols and systems to enhance enlarged North American business.
We are the safety, quality, efficiency and consistency delivering better than anticipated synergies of our services.
First Students commitment to safety and security has led to the installation of Child Check-Mate, an electronic system that reminds drivers to check for sleeping children when their routes are complete.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 Chief Executives operating review continued Child Check-Mate, pioneered by and specially First Transit management and contracting business won designed for First Student, is an electronic First Transit has delivered another successful in Maryland, Massachusetts, North Carolina child reminder system designed to ensure year of growth with US Dollar revenue and Wisconsin.
We continued to grow our that no child is ever left unattended on a increased by 45.8% and operating profit by share of the paratransit market with new school bus and has been further rolled out 75.3%.
First Transit has successfully contracts gained in Florida and Oklahoma.
Our scale makes it feasible implemented a programme to substantially Our acquisition of Cognisa last year significantly for us to develop products to give us greater reduce costs and increase efficiencies across enhanced our profile in the attractive shuttle bus assurance that our services are as safe as the business that has achieved consistent market.
This year we continued to build on our they can be and that are attractive to existing margin improvement.
During the year this position as the market leader in private shuttle and potential customers.
We continue to progress continued with further margin bus services in the US by expanding our invest in new vehicles to increase quality and increase achieved and the business is well business to Alabama, Texas, Georgia and reliability and support future growth.
During placed to deliver further profitable growth.
renewing a significant airport shuttle contract the year we invested $148m in 2,470 new in Maryland.
The first phase of the integration of former Laidlaw Transit Services LTS businesses into First Services As we anticipated, during the year we First Transit operations has been successfully First Services revenue grew by 8.8% during experienced some contract attrition and forced completed.
The former head office of LTS in the year and continued to achieve recognition divestment, as a result of the Antitrust review Kansas has been closed, along with residual for its best practice approach to operations process in the US, which represented 3% of offices in Illinois and California, and their and service.
Our vehicle fleet maintenance the school bus fleet of the combined business.
operations integrated with First Transit business continued to win new contracts for This was significantly less onerous than the in Cincinnati.
municipal customers in Louisiana, Indiana, assumptions made by us at the time of the Oklahoma, Georgia, California and Illinois.
I am acquisition announcement in February 2007. pleased to report that 36 First Vehicle Services We successfully retained our locations were listed in the Top 100 Fleet in focus on growing our share We were pleased to continue our high America in Government Fleet magazine.
Our of the transit market with record business retention track record including Mobile Technologies business also won new new business worth $45m per contracts in California and Missouri and also contracts to provide and fit specialist mobile to expand our services with new contract wins annum won.
communications equipment for police force in New Mexico, Connecticut and Wisconsin.
agencies in Kansas, New Jersey, California During the year we also completed four tuck-in and Virginia.
First Support Services, which I am pleased to report that during the year, acquisitions, adding over 550 revenue vehicles operates in the large Federal market, won while integrating the businesses, we successfully in New Jersey and Pennsylvania in the US and new business with the US Navy in Louisiana retained our focus on growing our share of Manitoba and Ontario in Canada.
and also with the US Air Force at their base the transit market with record new business in Spain and additional add-on services to worth $45m per annum won.
During the the contract at Diego Garcia.
period a significant fixed route transit contract was won in Arizona with further transit First Transits strategy to grow through new contract wins, organic growth and acquisition progressed with record new business worth $45m per annum and expansion of its paratransit business to Jacksonville, Florida and Tulsa, Oklahoma during the year.
8 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Greyhound Greyhounds extensive property portfolio There is a substantial opportunity to stimulate Greyhound is the only national and we believe that the business is ripe for revenue growth at Greyhound and we are provider of scheduled intercity coach modernisation.
Greyhound operates with encouraged by the response to some of the transportation services in the US and a high cost model, inconsistent operating initiatives we have already introduced.
Greyhound provides scheduled performance and has an under-developed this year we launched a new product called passenger services to approximately revenue base.
The strategic review coupled BoltBus within Greyhound.
Operating a 3, 00 destinations throughout the US with the results of initiatives we have already curbside service on routes to and from New and Canada carrying approximately implemented give us confidence that there York and Washington DC, Philadelphia and 25 million passengers annually.
is a significant opportunity to increase Boston, it is already proving highly successful.
value and generate further profitable growth We have invested in 33 new vehicles to offer Greyhound revenue, for the six months from Greyhound.
a high quality product with leather seats, since acquisition, was 280.8m or $565.8m.
extra leg-room, free Wi-Fi and power outlets.
The business is highly seasonal with a bias We have completed a substantial amount We are encouraged by advance booking towards the first half of our financial year as a of work to identify and target cost reductions trends which show that new passengers are greater proportion of its revenue and earnings and are already well underway with our plans.
being attracted with yield-managed fares, are achieved during the summer months.
Since completing the acquisition we have a loyalty programme and an online internet When we acquired the business in October consolidated Greyhounds head office in reservations system.
2007 revenue trends had been weakening.
Dallas from two separate properties to one Since then actions we have taken have single location and have relocated its call We have also made a number of small stabilised the business and I am pleased to centre.
Other initiatives implemented such changes to our service offering, which report that during the last three months of as a comprehensive review of ticket agents have proved successful, such as the priority the financial year we delivered year on year commission rates and arrangements, the seating programme which enables Greyhound revenue growth.
consolidation of back office functions of customers to pre-select their seats on the bus subsidiary brands and bringing in-house for a $5 fee in advance of the journey.
This has Since the acquisition we have conducted some functions such as vehicle cleaning have proved to be successful and as a result has a strategic review of Greyhound to identify already achieved significant cost savings.
been expanded to cover more than 70% of opportunities to develop the business and Greyhounds major locations.
Similarly, we establish practices that will underpin its have introduced an excess baggage charge future success.
Substantial value exists in limiting the number of free checked bags that customers can store on the vehicle.
BoltBus the new non-stop services between New York and Washington DC, Philadelphia and Boston are already a big success.
Providing exceptional service, luxury and convenience with fares as low as $ for tickets purchased in advance.
9 Chief Executives operating review continued Prior to our acquisition, Greyhound had UK Bus investment in towns and cities with potential adopted a national pricing strategy.
We have The Group is the largest bus operator in for passenger growth.
Investment in new carried out a review of pricing and ticketing the UK with a fleet of nearly 9,000 buses vehicles, together with initiatives to further activity and identified a significant opportunity and a market share of approximately 23%.
improve our maintenance and engineering to maximise yield management and increase We carry approximately three million functions, has delivered lower lost mileage and the range of online products offered.
We have passengers every day.
improved levels of punctuality and reliability.
already implemented a number of changes to the ticketing structure and enhanced our Results Partnerships web-based partnerships to encourage Our UK Bus division continues to deliver We believe that effective voluntary quality advance and online purchases.
A wider range a strong trading performance.
Revenue partnerships between bus operators and of products has been introduced enabling us increased to 1,104.9m 2007: 1,073.7m local authorities offer the best way of delivering to offer discounted fares to customers and as a result of revenue and passenger growth high quality bus services in support of the appropriately priced tickets during peak times initiatives and increased journeys including Governments objectives of tackling climate and holidays.
Operating profit change and congestion in our towns and cities rose by 18.4% to 122.0m 2007: 103.0m.
We continue Our cross-border operations between the I am pleased to report that we made further to see strong passenger growth in many of US and Mexico have benefited from a progress in delivering our margin enhancement our operating companies in metropolitan, restructuring of the organisation to provide programme which achieved an increase of urban and rural locations where we have greater frequencies and through-services for 1.4% in the operating margin.
forged successful partnerships to deliver customers.
The service has been refocused and improved services.
the brand developed allowing us to compete Increased operating profit and margins are a more effectively in this market with a service result of our continued focus on service quality, Our pioneering Route Development Plan that is more attractive to the customer base.
operational performance, delivering more RDP in Greater Glasgow was backed by the efficient working practices and the success introduction of 62 new double deck vehicles We are encouraged by the potential to develop of our turnaround strategy in our regional bus to deliver additional capacity and has resulted Greyhound.
The strategic review gives us operations.
We continue to bear down on in strong passenger growth.
Customer and confidence that there are clear opportunities to controllable costs in the face of expected stakeholder reaction has been very positive reduce costs, stimulate sustained revenue and headwinds this year, principally increased with the views and support we received for volume growth and generate further strong fuel costs.
changes to the bus network leading to operating cash flows.
We have a separate team improvements in access to hospitals, colleges focusing on the opportunities at Greyhound, in We continue to target higher levels of fleet and shopping areas across the city and the order to prevent any distraction from achieving presentation and invested 71m in new launch of Strathclydes first ever Park & Ride our objectives for the Student and Transit vehicles to support passenger growth and facility.
This years RDP will focus on the new businesses, and will continue to focus on partnership opportunities in Bradford, Bristol, travel patterns to work, health, leisure or maximising value for our shareholders.
Glasgow, Leeds, Manchester and South shopping and aims to get people out of their Yorkshire.
We will continue to target our cars and on to public transport.
FirstGroup were among the This year we announced our biggest international organisations to sign ever investment in new buses.
up to the European Road Safety Over 00m will be invested in new Charter creating a taskforce to share vehicles for 2008 09.
An industry best practice to improve road safety record that will see more than across the European Union.
700 new buses take to our roads.
0 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review In July 2007 we announced the introduction four months of Showcase 2 has seen We believe that effective voluntary of 200 new buses for Greater Manchester encouraging results with 5% passenger quality partnerships between bus to increase capacity at peak times by 25%.
We expect this to operators and local authorities The investment also demonstrates our continue when all of the benefits of the offer the best way of delivering commitment to a package of measures initiative are fully realised.
developed by the Greater Manchester Bus Operators Association to deliver a series of We also worked with Somerset County significant improvements to the bus networks The Sheffield Bus Agreement, our Council on the development of the service and service provision.
The proposals will deliver comprehensive Voluntary Quality Partnership linking Taunton and Yeovil that has resulted a truly integrated and improved public transport with Sheffield City Council and South Yorkshire in passenger growth of 9% on the corridor.
Passenger Transport Authority, celebrated network in the region and are designed to Somerset County Council has invested over support Greater Manchesters Transport its first anniversary at the end of April 2008.
1m in bus services in and around the Passenger growth has been achieved by Innovation Fund bid and preparation for the Taunton area to substantially improve the possible introduction of congestion charging.
joint marketing campaigns, agreed network overall offering to customers in the town.
improvements, infrastructure changes and We are pleased to achieve encouraging new camera enforcement of bus priority In December 2007 we signed a landmark measures.
The service between Sheffield, passenger growth in Doncaster.
Our agreement with Norfolk County Council and Overground concept of turn up and go Rotherham and Doncaster has benefited from Norwich City Council to deliver improved bus the partnership and a fleet of new vehicles services continues to deliver benefits for services through a Joint Investment Plan customers.
In addition, the completion of the has helped deliver passenger growth of 16%.
which includes a range of measures to The first English Statutory Quality Partnership Frenchgate Centre, with its integral Transport improve reliability, increase frequencies for Interchange, has made the town a more was introduced on Barnsley Road in North some city services and provide more low floor Sheffield in November delivering higher attractive retail destination.
This has led to buses to boost accessibility.
We are providing further investment and redevelopment in the standards on this corridor.
new vehicles for our flagship Excel service town centre and we have improved Sunday linking Lowestoft, Great Yarmouth, Norwich, frequencies as shopping and other leisure We continue to work in partnership with Kings Lynn and Peterborough and doubling activities continue to increase.
We are also local authorities to deliver the Greater frequencies on a core section to meet growing pleased with the performance of our dedicated Bristol bus network.
Patronage on the first passenger demand.
Showcase route has increased by 12% and, services to the refurbished racecourse and stadium that are proving highly successful.
in December 2007, we were pleased to launch Showcase 2, with Bristol City Council and The development of Robin Hood Airport is also having a positive impact on bus patronage.
The first In South Yorkshire we worked with the Passenger Transport Executive to improve our Sheffield to Doncaster service.
Our 3m new bus investment and a joint marketing campaign delivered passenger growth of 6% on the route.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives operating review continued We launched a new network in Plymouth in New services Working with Government April 2008.
The changes are as a result of a We continue to develop new services and We continue to work with the Department for year long exercise talking to customers, local products to enhance our offering to Transport and interested Parliamentarians as stakeholders and user groups as well as an passengers.
Our ftr services in York and Leeds the Local Transport Bill progresses through analysis of customer travel patterns across continue to deliver good passenger growth.
The ugobus branded network has Since the launch of the full ftr service in Leeds Governments objective of increasing bus started well and shows encouraging signs of we have seen passenger growth of 15% and patronage through more effective voluntary growing passenger numbers.
During the year, customer satisfaction scores on both routes quality partnerships and we welcome changes in partnership with Plymouth City Council, remain high.
We are delighted that the vehicles to competition law that will enable bus we celebrated the first anniversary of the are being used to provide an improved operators and local authorities to work upgraded Park & Ride services.
The investment customer experience, higher capacity and together on integrated timetabling and other in nine leather seated double deck vehicles greater frequency on the shuttle service for initiatives that can benefit bus passengers.
and a joint marketing campaign has delivered First Capital Connect customers arriving at passenger growth of 25%.
Luton Airport Parkway station and the airport.
We welcomed the expansion of the national We continue to develop plans for an ftr scheme concessionary scheme for England in April London and other major contracts in Swansea and are in discussion with local 2008 that gives additional benefits to old In London we are pleased with new contract authorities in Glasgow and Manchester to aged and disabled people across England.
wins that reflect our focus on improving introduce this high quality, tram-like vehicle to We will respond to the Department for performance and operational efficiencies.
additional cities across the UK.
York Aircoach, Transports consultation on the options for We are pleased with the performance of our our frequent, express, direct coach service reform of local bus service support and operations in East London in the Transport between York rail station and Leeds Bradford welcome moves to lessen the administrative for London TfL league tables.
However, International Airport continues to deliver burden of existing mechanisms.
our West London operations have been passenger growth.
adversely affected by continuing work to In July 2007 we announced the launch of the upgrade Londons utilities and infrastructure.
Performance Yellow School Bus Commission, chaired by We continue to work with TfL to prepare We are working with our local authority the Rt.
David Blunkett MP, to examine for Crossrail and other major infrastructure partners to improve punctuality and reliability, the issue of home to school transport.
During projects including the Olympic and Paralympic reduce journey times and minimise the impact the year the Commission visited many yellow Games.
We were pleased to gain planning of highway improvement and infrastructure school bus schemes across the UK and in approval for our new Hackney depot last works.
We believe that working together we the US and received evidence from students, year and are currently relocating our operations can increase patronage by offering punctual teachers, parents and other interested parties.
in phases to maintain good operating and reliable services to our customers.
We The Commission is expected to publish its performance.
During the year we also closed continue to progress Punctuality Improvement report in the summer.
our Acton depot and migrated services into Partnerships with local authorities in our our newly developed Hayes site.
operating areas and, together with our continued management focus on operational We are pleased with the renewal of contracts performance, we are pleased to report an for Dublin Airport car parks and the York Park increase in the number of bus services & Ride schemes.
meeting the standards we set on punctuality and reliability.
2 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Spotlight on investment This has been a busy year for the company and in every division we have invested for growth and to improve our offering to our customers.
Market context Investment in UK Bus We invest millions of pounds every year to deliver on our core values In UK Bus we invested 7 m in new vehicles to support passenger of safety and customer service.
We are the market leader in safe, growth initiatives and to improve accessibility for customers and reliable, innovative, sustainable transport services.
to invest in new vehicles, in our facilities, in technology and in our people to meet the expectations of our customers, stakeholders and 1 N ew buses have been introduced in many of the major towns and cities employees.
Our programme of investment is key to our strategy of where we operate and we are pleased that this year we have seen an sustainable, profitable growth in our core markets.
Investment in UK Rail 2 I n February we announced investment of over 100m in more than 700 new vehicles for next year.
This is our largest new bus order and the We invested 30m in our UK Rail division in the year to improve biggest order in the history of the bus industry.
our train fleet, to deliver customer service improvements and to make travelling by rail safer and more secure for our customers and our employees.
3 Our investment in our ftr service in York and Leeds has increased passenger numbers and improved our performance in customer satisfaction surveys.
1 During the year we finished the complete interior refresh and engine overhaul of First Great Westerns High Speed Train fleet and started a Investment in North America programme of improvements to the West Country regional train fleet.
Following our acquisition of Laidlaw we are the leader in the North American transport market.
We have created a strong platform to make 2 At First Capital Connect we continued with our work to improve reliability a compelling offering to new and existing customers through the provision and to refresh the interiors of trains operating on both the Thameslink and of a high quality, safe operation and a greater range of services.
1 W e invested $148m in 2,470 new yellow school buses to meet our customers 3 We completed our investment programme in First ScotRails Sleeper and requirements and continued to roll-out Child Check-Mate, an electronic child Class 318 fleet and, working with Transport Scotland, we are refreshing reminder system designed for First Student that ensures that all children have the interiors of our Class 156 and Class 158 trains to improve the safely disembarked the bus upon the completion of each run.
2 W e have invested in 33 new, high quality vehicles for our new BoltBus 4 We expanded our First TransPennine Express fleet as we began services between New York and Washington DC, Boston and Philadelphia.
operating services between Manchester Airport and Glasgow BoltBus offers on-board amenities such as extra leg room, free Wi-Fi and and Edinburgh.
5 We continue to invest in stations across our four rail franchises to 3 W e are investing in over 13,000 new school buses for our First Student improve facilities, enhance the environment and install additional safety business over the next three years.
This investment demonstrates our and security measures.
commitment to high standards of safety and quality and will ensure that our fleet is environmentally and technologically advanced.
71m 130m $148m New vehicle Investment in our Investment in new investment in UK Bus UK Rail franchises yellow school buses in 2007 08 in 2007 08 in 2007 08 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 Chief Executives operating review continued UK Rail First Great Western We continue to focus on improving First The UK Rail division operates passenger We are working hard to improve performance Great Westerns performance and delivering and freight services in the UK.
We have and customer service at First Great Western consistent levels of customer service.
We are a strong, balanced portfolio of intercity, which has fallen short of our own standards encouraged by significantly reduced delays regional and commuter franchises.
and the expectations of our passengers.
and cancellations in recent months and are Passenger rail franchises consist of First We have committed to provide 29m, as pleased to report that punctuality and reliability Capital Connect, First Great Western, part of a remedial action plan agreed with are showing signs of improvement.
However First ScotRail and First TransPennine the Department for Transport, to implement there is still much more work to be done and Express.
We also operate Hull Trains, a substantial package of passenger benefits our management team are committed to a non-franchised open access intercity to improve punctuality, improve customer ensuring that recent reductions in delays and passenger train operator, and we provide service and reduce overcrowding.
We are cancellations continue so that performance rail freight services through First GBRf.
recruiting more drivers, guards and technicians improvements are sustained in the long term.
We are the UKs largest rail operator to improve the reliability of train services: carrying approximately 275 million upgrading Customer Information Systems Last December we introduced a new passengers per annum.
at stations across the network: hiring more timetable, which has improved punctuality trains to increase seating capacity on some and increased seating capacity on the busiest Results of our busiest services, including the key parts of our network.
This year we also Our UK Rail division continues to deliver Cardiff-Portsmouth route: implementing an completed a substantial programme of growth as demand for our services, and enhanced training programme for all customer refurbishment of our High Speed Train HST the appetite for rail travel, continues to be facing staff: and the London and Thames fleet, started significant work to improve our strong.
We are committed to the long-term Valley regional fleet of Turbo trains will now fleet of West Country regional trains and development of railways in the UK and are receive a much more comprehensive interior progressed with our 40m station investing to deliver improved services for refresh to improve the on-train environment improvement plan.
We are the only operator to for passengers.
run every type of overground rail service in As part of the 200m investment pledged in the UK, from high speed intercity trains and A number of new appointments have been our franchise plans, our entire HST fleet has overnight sleepers to local branch lines, made to strengthen the management team now been completely overhauled with bright, regional and commuter services and open at First Great Western.
Our customer service comfortable interiors and more seats in 405 access, light rail and freight operations.
function is now based at London Paddington carriages and new more reliable, environmentally We continue to target investment to deliver our busiest station and we have a new, friendly engines in 117 power cars.
The new customer service and innovation improvements dedicated Performance Director and team.
engines have improved operating performance, and increased capacity.
Brand new route directors have also been doubled reliability, cut carbon emissions by 64% recruited for intercity, London and Thames and smoke emissions by 42%.
This programme Revenue in the UK Rail division increased Valley and the West Country to concentrate was recognised in the prestigious annual HSBC by 6.2% to 1,937.0m 2007: 1,824.1m on improving performance in a geographically Rail Business Awards, winning the Rolling Stock and operating profit increased by 10.3% to diverse franchise.
Excellence and Engineering Excellence awards.
120.0m 2007: 108.8m reflecting strong volume growth across all of our rail operations together with new services and additional capacity introduced during the year.
4 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review The refresh of our West Country regional train First Capital Connect We are actively working with the Department fleet is well underway with 15 refurbished In April 2008 First Capital Connect celebrated for Transport to implement the Thameslink trains now in service.
Due for completion its second anniversary and the franchise goes Programme, which will provide the longer-term early in 2009, this programme is providing from strength to strength.
Our commitment solution to easing overcrowding through a more comfortable and cleaner on-board to exceeding our challenging performance greatly increased capacity.
The first phase of environment for passengers and includes targets to provide customers with a punctual works is due to commence in March 2009 a range of technical improvements to make and reliable service is delivering results.
First and platform lengthening work has already the trains more reliable.
Capital Connects PPM, the recognised begun at stations along the Thameslink route.
industry performance measure, is over 90% We have progressed our station improvement with peak performance on the Bedford to We have received approval for the Cambridge programme, over the past year, refurbishing London section of the Thameslink route seeing & Peterborough Capacity Study, which will facilities in the Thames Valley, Oxfordshire, the most significant improvement.
enable us to run additional trains on the Great Gloucestershire and the South West.
The study recommended also increased car parking at Tiverton Parkway However, we recognise the challenge faced measures to reduce overcrowding including and Kemble stations and completed the by First Capital Connect in addressing the introduction of a new timetable to match installation of more than 120 additional ticket overcrowding on the network and we are supply of trains to customer needs, to vending machines at stations across the working with our industry partners to ensure lengthen platforms and upgrade power supply network.
Our franchise commitment to that additional capacity is provided for our to accommodate longer trains and more improve safety and security at our stations by customers on both routes.
Since the start frequent services.
rolling out Secure Station status is being met of the franchise First Capital Connect has with 108 stations accredited by the end of secured five additional Class 319 units There will be two additional trains in the March 2008. to strengthen services and a further eight morning peak and five additional trains in the units will be transferred to the company in evening peak with some trains strengthened Throughout the year we have worked closely December 2008.
This will allow us to strengthen from eight to 12-car operation.
The Cambridge with Network Rail to tackle the significant more trains from a four car to eight car & Peterborough Capacity study will deliver railway infrastructure challenges.
A number operation and to increase further capacity 1,779 extra seats in the morning peak and of initiatives have been designed to improve for Thameslink route customers.
2,490 in evening peak a 15% increase performance including the upgrade of the in seats.
Reading to London relief line to 90mph.
Due to be completed this summer the upgrade will create greater capacity, reliability and improved journey times for passengers in the Thames Valley.
First Capital Connect is progressing its commitment to improve security and protect revenue.
So far 3 stations have been fitted with automatic ticket gates with a further two to go live by summer 2008.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 We have now invested more than 44m in First ScotRail line connects Clackmannanshire to the First Capital Connects stations and trains We are delighted that the Scottish Government passenger rail network for the first time in since the start of the franchise.
Customer has extended our successful First ScotRail 40 years with an hourly service linking Alloa service is at the centre of these decisions franchise for a further three years to November to Glasgow.
We are procuring, for Transport which has already provided refurbished 2014.
The franchise extension agreement Scotland, a fleet of new electric trains to toilets, waiting rooms and shelters as well creates an investment fund of more than increase capacity on our Ayrshire routes as as introducing additional help points, new 70m, for control by Transport Scotland, to well as providing for the new Airdrie-Bathgate CCTV cameras, ticket vending machines further improve Scotlands railway.
The fund services and the Glasgow Airport Rail Link.
can be used for additional train services, to improve journey times, connections and In May 2008 First ScotRail began operating First Capital Connect relocated from Kings quality of services which will bring direct additional morning and evening peak express Cross Thameslink station to St Pancras passenger benefits.
services between Edinburgh and Glasgow International station on 9 December 2007. and a summer only service on the Inverness to The new station is one of the largest transport Kyle of Lochalsh line.
We expect to introduce We are delighted that the hubs in Europe with links to Eurostar, long a new timetable in December 2008 with the Scottish Government has distance rail and six London Underground recast of our  extended our successful lines.
The new station complies with the services to offer greater capacity and shorter Disability Discrimination Act with spacious journey times.
First ScotRail franchise platforms accessible by escalator and lifts.
Since the start of the franchise we have We continue to introduce improvements in invested more than 25m in Scotlands Performance continues to improve with a safety and security at stations and on trains railways and this year completed our record PPM for First ScotRail of 93.8% in which, together with our partnership with the refurbishment of the Sleeper and Class 318 March 2008.
Since we commenced operation British Transport Police, has delivered a 44% units.
Our Class 156 units have also been of the franchise in October 2004 we have reduction in anti-social behaviour and a 15% refurbished, with Transport Scotland funding, reduced the delays, for which we are reduction in crime.
We continue to invest in the and a programme of interior improvements responsible, by 50% compared with a provision of five British Transport Police Officers for the Class 158 units is now underway.
and 24 Police Community Support Officers for the network.
We are delighted that First ScotRail will The number of passengers using First ScotRail be operating Scotlands railway during the services has grown by 19% since the start of We have introduced automatic ticket gates Commonwealth Games in Scotland in 2014 the franchise as a result of our good at 13 stations across the network and since and look forward to being able to contribute performance and award winning marketing the start of the franchise achieved Secure to the success of this prestigious event.
We expect passenger numbers Station status at 47 stations.
We have also to continue to rise with the opening of the recently achieved ParkMark accreditation Stirling-Alloa line on 19 May 2008.
The new at more stations with 26 station car parks now accredited.
First ScotRails franchise was extended for a further three years until 20 4.
The agreement with Transport Scotland creates an investment fund of more than 70m for a comprehensive package of enhancements.
6 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review First TransPennine Express We were also highly commended in the Train Hull Trains Our First TransPennine Express franchise Operating Company of the Year category and, I am pleased with the performance of our continues to deliver excellent results with in partnership with Siemens Transportation open access operator Hull Trains which passenger growth of over 11% and improved Systems, in the Environmental Innovation continues to achieve passenger volume operating performance with PPM at nearly of the Year category for reducing the fuel growth.
This year we carried nearly 700,000 92% over the year.
consumption of our Class 185 units by passengers, compared to 80,000 in our first 7% per kilometre.
We introduced two Class In the recent National Passenger Survey 180 Adelante trains into service in April 2008 overall customer satisfaction with First We are pleased to support Liverpool as this alongside our fleet of three Class 222 Pioneer TransPennine Express was 86%, an years European Capital of Culture with its trains, which will add capacity to the route.
improvement of 12% since the start of the music, arts, sport and maritime heritage.
The survey also We worked closely with First TransPennine highlighted improved satisfaction with stations First GBRf Express to ensure that Hulls new Paragon reflecting our investment of more than First GBRf had another successful year of Transport Interchange suited the needs of 12m in improving the environment of the growth including an increase in services for the modern passenger.
The redevelopment 30 stations we manage across the North.
Royal Mail, three new coal contracts and provides passengers with an increased level investment in fleet expansion with the of comfort and additional facilities.
In December 2007 we successfully launched purchase of 90 coal hoppers and five new services from Manchester Airport to new locomotives.
We introduced a new, significantly reduced Glasgow and Edinburgh.
The new services are evening single fare to provide customers fully integrated into our existing North West First GBRf has increased mail services with a new value alternative and to reduce routes with additional drivers, conductors and between Royal Mails London and Glasgow overcrowding on peak services.
We also managers at key locations to ensure efficient depots from two to five journeys a day and formed a partnership with Eurostar to connect operation.
We are marketing the new journey has also increased its share of the UK coal Hull Trains customers with Eurostars new opportunities to and from Scotland with a market with new contracts with British Energy, services from St Pancras International.
The range of promotional offers and are pleased Alcan and Drax Power taking our proportion partnership means that travellers can book with the response from our customers and of the coal freight market to 12% in under through-fares from Hull, Selby, Doncaster, stakeholders.
The new services will contribute two years.
Retford and Grantham to the continent, an additional 10m of revenue per annum.
allowing travel by rail to be as quick, easy and seamless as possible.
First TransPennine Express was short-listed for four categories at the prestigious HSBC Rail Business Awards and won the award for Station of the Year for its contribution to Hull Paragon Transport Interchange.
The accolade recognised the recent 18m redevelopment of the station which brought train, bus and coach services together.
In December 2007 we expanded the reach of our First TransPennine Express network with the introduction of new services from Manchester Airport to Glasgow and Edinburgh.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 Spotlight on safety As the leading transport provider more than 2.5 billion passengers travel on our services across the UK and North America every year.
The safety of our passengers and staff is our highest priority, thats why safety is the cornerstone of our business and underpins everything that we do.
Embedding safety across our business All our staff worldwide carry the Injury Prevention handbook We rigorously apply a zero tolerance approach to unsafe acts and containing the First Safety Principles and specific safety information.
Injury Prevention, our industry-leading initiative, is embedded The handbook also contains a safety contact section that staff across our entire Group with the clear aim of engaging all employees in are required to use to report any safety or security concerns.
Our safety principles are clear and simple: If you cannot do it encourage further awareness across the Group we are introducing safely, dont do it.
additional training in personal risk assessment and safety planning and enhancing the safety contact process.
Continual improvement We continually seek to find ways to improve our services and working 3 Our signing of the European Road Safety Charter, along with other practices to ensure they are the safest they can be.
We have made international organisations, creates a taskforce to share best practice good progress with further safety initiatives and achievements during and help improve road safety across Europe.
the year including: 4 The Smith System Defensive Driving programme has been rolled out to 1 The launch of a new Group-wide mobile phone policy prohibiting the our UK Bus division.
This training, which focuses on the five keys of safe use of hands free mobile phones whilst driving on company business.
driving, has already proved highly effective in our North American business.
Supported by a comprehensive internal communications campaign, the By June 2008 all of our bus drivers in the UK will have completed Smith aim of this policy is to ensure the safety of our employees and promote System training.
a greater awareness of safe behaviour.
5 Train simulators are now in use across all of our rail franchises to ensure the 2 One of our key priorities this year was to ensure the timely and effective highest possible training and safety standards for our drivers.
Designed to roll-out of Injury Prevention to our new North American operations.
complement training in a real cab they recreate real life situations and difficult Within one month of completing the acquisition of Laidlaw, we introduced scenarios that might not otherwise be experienced.
This year we introduced Injury Prevention to all of our new operating locations and employees.
two new simulators to First Capital Connect providing new and experienced drivers with excellent ongoing training.
More detailed information on our safety initiatives, activities and targets can be found in our separate Corporate Social Responsibility Report available online at www.
com Lost Time Injuries: reduced by 23% this year Injury Prevention rolled out During the year Lost Time Injuries over one day to 137,000 employees per 1,000 employees per year were 15.8 2007: 20.5 8 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Chief Executives operating review continued Europe Corporate Social Responsibility We are pleased to be included in the While North America continues to be our We view Corporate Social Responsibility CSR FTSE4Good, the Dow Jones Sustainability primary focus for growth and international as integral to our strategy to deliver sustainable and the Business in the Community Corporate development, during the year we continued growth.
Our CSR strategy is linked to our Responsibility Indices.
our strategy to explore opportunities in new vision to Transform Travel.
We seek to achieve markets.
We were pleased to be awarded, this by being the leader in providing transport We want to contribute to the with our partner DSB, the resund rail services that are safe, customer focused, communities we serve by franchise to provide coastal and Copenhagen innovative and sustainable.
providing safe, high quality Airport links in Denmark and Sweden.
The new franchise commences operation in We take seriously our responsibility as the and reliable services that will January 2009 and will run until 2017. leading provider of transportation in the UK encourage greater use of public and North America.
Public transport services transport and of which our Group outlook play a key role in supporting the economy.
This has been a year of significant Within the UK our businesses make a achievement with record performance across significant contribution to Gross Domestic The focus on CSR has grown in recent years all of our businesses, demonstrating the Product and our activities generate substantial with shareholders and other stakeholders strength of the Group and a focus on our indirect and wider economic benefits.
Our showing an increasing interest in the nonstrategy to achieve profitable growth in our customers complete over one billion bus financial aspects of our Groups performance.
Our balanced portfolio of journeys and 275 million rail journeys each We also publish a Corporate Social operations continues to generate strong year.
We recognise that our business activities Responsibility Report which can be found operating cash flows with good opportunities take us in to the heart of local communities.
The Board is confident of Our services provide a vital link for people and together with more detailed information the future prospects for the Group and has we want to contribute to the communities we on our activities, objectives and how we committed to dividend growth of 10% per serve by providing safe, high quality and have performed against our targets.
annum for the fourth consecutive year.
reliable services that will encourage greater Looking ahead we continue to bear down use of public transport and of which our on controllable costs and to seek further employees can be proud.
efficiencies across the business in the face of expected headwinds, most notably fuel cost increases.
Despite the weaker economic backdrop the Group is well positioned with a balanced portfolio of operations and approximately 50% of the Groups revenues secured under medium-term contracts in the UK and North America.
Although it is early in the new financial year, the Group continues to trade well and the outlook remains positive.
Building on our renowned workplace learning programme we signed the UK Governments Skills Pledge, a voluntary, public commitment by companies to support their employees in developing basic skills including literacy and numeracy.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9 Chief Executives operating review continued Our CSR report is structured around the five Customer service America we view our contracts as partnerships key areas which are central to our business Our core values of safety and customer and work closely with our customers on a daily and to our strategy: service underpin everything that we do.
basis to ensure our service delivery meets their Providing a high quality, reliable service will requirements and that we respond effectively 1 Managing the safety and security of our attract more customers to public transport.
to the day-to-day issues that are part of staff and customers We seek to forge strong relationships with our providing a dynamic transportation service.
2 Delivering high quality customer service customers to understand and respond to their 3 Recognising the value of our employees travel needs, which is key to delivering longEmployees 4 Minimising the impact of our operations term sustainable growth.
Effective engagement Our aim is to be the employer of choice in on the environment with customers is essential to this goal.
We our industry recruiting and retaining high 5 Engaging with the community.
seek regular customer feedback through a performing, motivated employees.
Our range of mediums including customer surveys, employees are often the first point of contact Safety focus groups, meet the manager sessions, between our customers and our business and Safety is our highest priority.
We believe that customer panels and the use of mystery are vital to our success.
Their commitment, Injury Prevention, our Group-wide initiative to travellers.
Ultimately, customer satisfaction dedication and effort are crucial if we are to engage our employees in safety, leads the is determined by our ability to deliver our meet our customers expectations and ensure industry.
The aim of Injury Prevention is to promise.
Providing a punctual and reliable that we are known as the leader in safe, ensure that action is taken to report any service is key and therefore developing reliable, innovative, sustainable transport matters of safety and to resolve them promptly effective partnerships to help achieve this services.
We are committed to supporting in order to prevent any harm from occurring is essential.
our employees to develop and reach their full to anyone.
This year we rolled out Injury potential.
We continue to invest in the training Prevention across our enlarged North Across all areas of our business we develop and development of our employees across American business and we have introduced and nurture partnerships to support our the Group.
In the UK we recently signed the a new system to log the outcome of safety business aims.
In UK Bus we work closely Governments Skills Pledge, a voluntary public conversations.
I am pleased to report a further with local authorities and invest to provide a commitment by companies to support reduction in Lost Time Injuries across the sustainable network of bus services, a modern employees in developing basic skills including Group which reduced by 23% this year.
attractive fleet and seek to encourage bus literacy and numeracy.
priority schemes to lessen the impact of traffic A co-ordinated CSR programme enables us congestion on our services.
In UK Rail we A shortage of drivers and high staff turnover to share best practice across our business.
work closely with Network Rail, the railway has been an issue for the bus industry in the We have introduced the Smith System Defensive infrastructure provider, to establish better ways UK.
We have pro-actively addressed this issue Driving programme to our UK Bus division.
This of managing the rail network such as joint in our business.
Our European recruitment training programme, which focuses on the five control centres to improve the management initiative continues to be recognised as best keys of safe driving, has been highly effective in and communication of disruption.
In North practice with dedicated training centres, our North American operations.
By June 2008 all language tuition and induction programmes of our bus drivers in the UK will have completed contributing to consistent service delivery and Smith System training.
The Yellow School Bus Commission is assessing the benefits of US-style home to school transport.
David Blunkett MP, Chairman, and the Committee are reviewing the yellow school bus model in the US and the UK.
20 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review reduced driver turnover.
We were delighted to their impact and to provide the framework to During the year the Group established a win a National Training Award in 2007 for our implement our environmental strategy.
Each of national partnership with Save the Children.
initiative to improve recruitment and induction our operating companies is required to meet The funds we raise through the partnership processes within our UK Bus division.
We are the environmental standards set by the Group.
are being used to appoint three new members pleased that our efforts have resulted in a We are committed to achieving ISO14001 of staff to expand the work of the charity in significant reduction in driver turnover over accreditation within all of our UK companies helping some of the poorest children in the the past four years.
by April 2009, demonstrating international UK.
Our first major funding event was the standards in environmental management.
Monster Challenge duathlon around the This has been a challenging year for shores of Loch Ness in Scotland.
In addition, employees in North America as we have Earlier this year we commissioned a poll six of our buses have been branded with integrated two businesses and cultures.
by YouGov to measure attitudes to public Save the Childrens identity to promote our We recognise the need to ensure that our transport and the environment in the UK.
We partnership and raise awareness of child employees are satisfied and motivated in the are encouraged by the results which showed poverty in the UK.
In order to better understand the that 50% of the population are becoming needs and concerns of our enlarged North increasingly concerned about environmental Our CSR strategy supports our vision to American workforce we have conducted an issues and of those people 61% said they Transform Travel.
We have a well-established initial employee opinion survey that is informing were considering switching some or all of framework to support and manage our CSR the development of a people strategy for their journeys to public transport.
Last year activities and objectives.
This enables us to the business.
we published our Climate Change Strategy share best practice across the Group and setting out how we intend to reduce carbon continually assess our performance to seek emissions from our operations.
Full details ways in which we can continue to improve We have a well-established of our Climate Change Strategy including and develop in this key area.
environmental management our targets for reduction of emissions system to monitor our activities, can be found on our website their impact and to provide the www.
com framework to implement our Communities environmental strategy.
Our services are an integral part of the communities we serve.
Connecting with and Environment supporting local communities is encouraged Moir Lockhead As a public transport operator we support Chief Executive at every level in our organisation.
As a business the development of more sustainable travel which is global in scale but local in approach, solutions to lessen the reliance on the private a great deal of support is carried out at local car.
We continue to seek ways to reduce the level.
Management are empowered to support impact of our operations on the environment events and activities in their communities.
and have a well-established environmental management system to monitor our activities, As part of our core value of safety we have rolled out Injury Prevention training to all 37,000 employees across the Group.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 2
