qxp:Layout 3 12 9 08 13:00 Page 6 Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives Q&A Right time, right place Keith Ludeman, Group Chief Executive, reviews topical issues and talks about his plans for the Group.
Why have you chosen right time, right place as the theme for this report?
We believe that now is a great time to be a public transport operator.
The quality of public transport has increased signicantly as private companies, local authorities and the Government have invested heavily in improving the bus and rail network.
In our view, better services, increasing environmental awareness and the rising cost of fuel are driving a fundamental and positive shift in customer attitudes towards public transport.
In terms of being in the right place we believe Go-Ahead has the right strategy to benefit from these opportunities.
We focus on operating in high density commuter markets which are ideal for public transport.
Our devolved structure empowers our managers to make local decisions based on local needs.
This is important as public transport is very much at the heart of local communities.
Do you really think people are switching from cars to public transport?
It is still early days, but I do believe that people are thinking twice before getting in their car for every journey.
Petrol prices alone have increased dramatically over the last year and combined with road tax and insurance, the rising cost Keith Ludeman, Group Chief Executive of motoring is hitting individuals hard, especially given the growing cost of living.
This means there is a strong disincentive for private car use.
With the frustration of driving on our In our view, better services, congested road network, it makes sense for people to consider cheaper and more convenient alternatives.
increasing environmental Environmental awareness is also playing a part.
Bus and rail have superior environmental credentials compared to private awareness and the rising cost of car use and are key to tackling carbon emissions and road congestion.
Go-Ahead has always put environmental fuel are driving a fundamental and responsibility at the heart of its business and a decade long positive shift in customer attitudes investment programme means we have the youngest and greenest bus eet of the major UK operators.
We aim to towards public transport.
operate our services in a sustainable and environmentally responsible manner while at the same time ensuring we deliver high quality services that provide an attractive alternative to car travel.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 6 26156 p04-07.
qxp:Layout 3 12 9 08 13:00 Page 7 We feel that the combination of local autonomy and Group scale is the best way to maximise the organic growth from our operations.
How do you think a slowdown in the economy would Improving the performance of aviation services is another affect demand for your services?
Whilst conditions in this market are challenging, We recognise that we are operating in an uncertain we are beginning to see the results of our turnaround economic environment.
However, we feel that we are in a plan and have restored profitability in this division.
better position than many if the economy does go through And of course, the safety of our passengers, employees and a significant downturn as public transport is typically a cheaper the general public is always a top priority for the Group, as is way to travel for both commuting and discretionary travel.
our responsibility to run our services to timetable and ensure In addition, the defensive strengths of public transport and that passengers have a positive journey experience.
the growth opportunities the industry is experiencing should help offset any reduction in demand from factors such 6.
How do you maximise shareholder return?
We aim to re on all cylinders in this regard through organic To date, the demand for our services remains strong.
As you growth, focused investment and returns to shareholders.
can see from our results, we have experienced particularly high We feel that the combination of local autonomy and Group levels of growth in the number of rail passengers, especially scale is the best way to maximise the organic growth from off-peak travel, and demand for our buses continues to grow.
Investment in capex and acquisitions is rigorous and disciplined, and we will dispose of operations which we 4.
How has the increase in fuel prices affected your bus operations?
feel are under-performing or are worth more to others than The increase in fuel price has been significant over the last to us.
We maintain a relatively conservative level of gearing, twelve months, rising from less than 30 pence per litre to backed by a five year nancing facility to 2012 and highly cash over 55 pence per litre at the end of June.
Finally, we are committed to maintaining is a relatively small part of our bus cost base, accounting for our progressive dividend policy which we know is valued by around 10%.
We are confident that we can recover these many of our shareholders.
costs over time through a combination of increased fuel efficiency and fare increases.
In the near term, we have hedged 7.
Will you consider investing in overseas operations?
100% of our requirements for the next financial year at an Go-Ahead is unique amongst the major UK public transport average of 43 pence per litre and 50% of the following year operators because of our UK focus.
We are recognised as at 52 pence per litre.
having significant expertise in the UK bus and rail market and this is welcomed by our shareholders and will remain 5.
What are the other priorities for your UK operations?
Effective management of costs in our bus operations is a key That said, we have looked at a number of opportunities priority.
Labour is a major part of our cost base and we need overseas in the past and will continue to do so, but will to remain efficient and competitive in this area.
We will continue only pursue these if we believe that they will add value to invest in our bus eet and infrastructure to maintain a high for our shareholders.
Retaining the Southern franchise is clearly a priority for our 8.
rail division and we were pleased to hear in August that we We feel that public transport has never been in better shape.
had been shortlisted by the DfT to bid for the new franchise.
We are well placed to deal with any challenges that the next In addition, there are at least nine other rail franchises which 12 months may bring and to benefit from a continuing shift will expire by 2014, presenting opportunities for us to towards public transport as people seek better, cheaper and consolidate our strong position.
The introduction of the UKs greener transport alternatives.
We believe that this is the right first high speed domestic rail service in our Southeastern time and that we are in the right place.
franchise in 2009 is an important step for the Group, and I am pleased to say that we are making good progress.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7
