qxp:Layout 3 12 9 08 13:00 Page 4 Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives review Strategy drives growth This years results again demonstrate how we have translated our strategy into success.
We manage the Group through twelve operating companies in three divisions.
All twelve companies increased their operating profit this year compared to last year.
Overview of operating performance Operating profit increased by 26.8m, or 22.7%, to 144.9m for the year 2007: 118.1m.
The increase consisted of an improvement in bus of 10.4m, rail of 11.1m and aviation services of 5.3m.
Organic growth accounted for 18.7m of the increase in operating profit across the divisions, equivalent to an increase of 15.8%.
The balance of 8.1m Keith Ludeman, Group Chief Executive was due to contributions from acquisitions with 1.5m in bus, 6.3m in rail and 0.3m in aviation services.
Bus overview This years results again We improved operating profit in both our regulated bus operations in London and in each of our five deregulated bus demonstrate how we have operations.
Our operating profit margin increased by 1.0 ppt translated our strategy to 11.9%, despite cost pressure from the significant increases in fuel prices during the year.
In London, we achieved a material increase in the scale of our operations, adding 12.7% to the mileage we operate in the capital.
As always, delivering a high quality of service is crucial to reputational and financial success.
We were pleased to increase the amount of quality incentive bonus we earned in the year not without its challenges at present given the high number of roadworks in the city.
We improved our portfolio of deregulated operations through the sale of our under-performing Go West Midlands operation in February 2008, following a strategic review of the options for this business.
Our remaining five deregulated operations recorded a total increase in passenger numbers of 2.9% compared to last year, Operating profit by division including growth of 4.9% in the fourth quarter.
We believe 2008 2007 Increase Increase m m m % that this acceleration in passenger growth is due to both the expansion of the concessionary fare scheme across the country Bus 66.2 55.8 10.4 18.6% in April 2008 and modal shift from car to bus, prompted in part Rail 77.2 66.1 11.1 16.8% by the higher cost of fuel.
Aviation Services 1.5 3.8 5.3 n a Total 144.9 118.1 26.8 22.7% Before amortisation and exceptional items.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 4 26156 p04-07.
qxp:Layout 3 12 9 08 13:00 Page 5 Our strategy Organic Cash Capital Value adding Progressive Capital 1earnings growth 2 management 3 investment 4 acquisitions 5 dividend policy 6 structure Year on year increase Cashow generated Capital investment Operating profit Dividend cover, based Maintain adjusted in operating profit from operations to to match depreciation contribution from on adjusted earnings net debt EBITDA excluding acquisitions match operating through the cycle, transactions to exceed per share, to average at between 1.5x or disposals and profit plus except if additional our post tax weighted 2x through the cycle and 2.5x through adjusted earnings depreciation EBITDA spend adds value average cost of capital the cycle per share Organic earnings Cashow generated Net capital investment Operating profit Dividend cover 2.16x Share buybacks growth of 15.8%, from operations depreciation of 111% contribution of 8.1m of 87.3m: adjusted adjusted earnings EBITDA of 99.0% on current and prior net debt EBITDA per share up 24.2% year transactions with of 1.65x a net acquisition cost of 33.9m Cost control is an ongoing feature across all of our bus Our cargo operation achieved a strong improvement in its operations.
Fuel accounts for around 10% of our costs and operating profit in the year.
We reduced capacity and costs at we have now hedged all of our requirements for the year to Gatwick, and improved the utilisation of our increased capacity June 2009 and around half of the following years requirements.
at Heathrow in response to changes in the cargo market.
In addition, we are making good progress with fuel efficiency Our Meteor operations also enjoyed a good year, increasing savings through driver training and monitoring technology.
operating profit by 0.4m, including the full year impact of We continue to progress cost reductions through productivity acquisitions made last year.
This was supplemented by tight initiatives, and to encourage high performance standards control of costs and overtime.
Our strategy Rail overview Our strategy is to provide high quality passenger transport Our rail division delivered an excellent performance.
Operating profit increased in both our Southern and Measuring the delivery of our strategy consists of six broad Southeastern franchises, and we took ownership of the objectives consistent with the delivery of shareholder value.
The London Midland franchise in November 2007 and of the above table summarises the key performance indicators against Gatwick Express franchise in June 2008. each of these objectives, together with the current year results.
The quality of our services continued to strengthen, with We seek organic earnings growth from all of our operations, improved punctuality and customer satisfaction ratings.
We measured before amortisation and exceptional items to believe that quality of service is one of the causal factors behind provide more comparable year on year information, and the sustained growth in passenger numbers for the year, which manage payments and receipts closely to convert operating amounted to 6.7% in Southern and 6.4% in Southeastern.
This profit into operating cash.
We support this growth through led to an increase in passenger revenue of 13.2% in Southern investment in capital to both maintain and enhance our and 13.0% in Southeastern for the year, totalling 97.5m.
We continue to assess acquisition opportunities, Revenue growth was also strong in London Midland, exceeding primarily in the UK, but these will only be pursued if we believe our bid assumptions and leading to an element of revenue share they will add value for our shareholders.
In addition, we are with the DfT for the period.
We are pleased with the way this prepared to make disposals if doing so adds value.
Finally, we franchise has started.
will maintain our financial discipline, returning value to shareholders through our progressive dividend policy whilst This years results include the favourable settlement of a preserving an appropriately strong capital structure.
number of commercial issues, which amounted to around 7m.
This process is part of the routine resolution of cross-industry Our devolved management structure and local branding matters, but the outcome is uncertain each year, and we may distinguishes us from the other large transport groups in the UK not benefit to the same extent next year.
and supports our culture of customer care, social responsibility and performance ownership.
Our aim is to maintain the value Aviation Services overview of this strong local culture whilst securing the benets of scale We achieved our aim of returning the division to an operating and best practice transfer available to a Group of our size.
profit for the year following a difficult year in 2006 07.
Over 70% of the 5.3m improvement in operating profit was achieved in our ground handling operations.
The year started with the mobilisation of the new British Airways BA contract, followed by significant restructuring of the ground handling operations.
The improvement plans will continue Keith Ludeman, to be implemented during the 2008 09 year.
Group Chief Executive 4 September 2008 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 08 performance KPIs
