Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 10 Directors report Business review continued Operational review In key sectors of government investment we achieved significant growth during Raw material use the year, substantially greater than Group revenue growth of 3.6 per cent.
In education, revenues jumped by 43.0 per cent, boosted by work on the Leeds Building Schools for the Future BSF programme, and in health turnover grew by 18.9 per cent as the ProCure21 programme provided a steady flow of construction work together with new relationships in facilities management.
Our strong position managing the MoDs defence estate was reinforced by a 25.8 per cent increase in revenues from this sector.
At 31 December 2008 future workload excluding our Middle East associates stood at 6.2 billion 2007: 5.7 billion, with 1.6 billion relating to 2009 up Sheffield Winter Garden 19.5 per cent on the equivalent figure The award-winning Sheffield Winter Garden is the largest urban glasshouse in Europe.
In addition our share of the The essence of the building is a series of timber arches which carry the glazing panels future workload for our Middle East and create a vast, light, vaulted hallway in which more than 2,500 plants and trees associates grew by 37 per cent and are displayed.
The arches are made using a glue lamination technique Glulam to form the timber Net debt at 31 December 2008 was into graceful parabolic curves 21 metres high.
The wood is larch, from sustainable 109.2 million 31 December 2007: forests, which requires no preservatives or coatings and avoids the use of chemicals 101.6 million and cash conversion for that could kill the Gardens plants.
the year measured 98.7 per cent 2007: Beyond the environmental benefits of the raw material itself, the Garden uses an 118.6 per cent.
Despite outflows from a intelligent building management system.
This controls fans and vents to make sure reduction in advance payments received the minimum of energy is used while maintaining the best conditions for the plants in we were able to deliver a creditable cash summer and winter and the system learns over time.
conversion ratio approaching 100 per cent.
Benefits: Outlook A research study on the environmental impact of the construction showed that the We deliver critical services to social timber roof required around 95 per cent less energy to produce than steel or infrastructure and commercial and concrete alternatives.
industrial assets at each stage in their life cycle.
We create value by delivering The insulating properties of timber limit cold bridging energy loss where the frame penetrates external elements of the structure, and operational efficiency, performance its low thermal mass helps reduce fuel bills by absorbing little heat.
improvement and value for money solutions.
These outcomes are attractive Management of the planting and felling cycle means that CO2 and resilient at all points in the absorption, which is significant during growth but reduces economic cycle, but particularly in more considerably once the tree has matured, is maximised.
During 2009 we expect that a robust public and privatised sector, which accounts for two-thirds of of major outsourcing programmes to Internationally, given the outlook in our activity, will offset what is likely to reduce costs within its own departments, certain markets, we will continue to take remain a challenging and uncertain the Defra support contract we won in action to lower costs and limit capital environment for our operations exposed December 2008 being an example, and expenditure across our Equipment to the private sector.
we expect this trend to continue.
Services business as we continue to focus However, the private sector markets in on equipment utilisation.
Our UK public sector business is centred which we operate within the UK are on areas such as health, education, expected to remain weak and to mitigate In the Middle East as a whole, our defence and custodial, in which the these pressures we have put in place a geographical spread, the diversity of government has a continued commitment number of cost reduction measures services provided, the high quality to investment.
In particular, central across the affected businesses.
customers with whom we have worked government has set in motion a number for many years and our exposure to 10 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 11 growth markets such as Qatar, Abu Dhabi, Oman and Bahrain will continue Energy to present us with good opportunities in the coming years.
With a solid UK position, continued opportunities in the Middle East, a record order book, strong visibility and a robust balance sheet we believe that the Groups operations are well placed to deliver another year of progress, despite the challenging economic environment.
Facilities Management Facilities Management FM provides a broad range of integrated, or bundled, services to the public and private sectors, predominantly in the UK.
We Hadley Learning Community deliver the vast majority of these services ourselves, differentiating us Setting the blueprint for the governments Building Schools for the Future programme, from our competitors in most markets.
Hadley Learning Community is one of the countrys first all-through schools.
The PFI project is an exciting development designed to provide top quality education in a Results summary: shared environment that encourages involvement not just from the pupils and their 2008 2007 Change parents but also from the local community.
Revenue 793.3m 733.1m 8.2% Contribution to Total The 39-acre campus includes: 32.8m 27.9m 17.6% Operating Profit schools for 1,200 secondary, 420 primary and 150 profound disability students Margin 4.1% 3.8% 0.3% pts childrens centre swimming pool The Facilities Management division addresses the market through five clientfitness dance studio facing units which allows us to tailor our 150-seat theatre delivery to the particular needs of our sports hall target sectors while maximising conference rooms efficiency and promoting best learning resource centre with ICT facilities operational practice across the division.
Sustainability was a key consideration throughout all stages of the project and formed Our performance was strong, delivering an integral part of both the facilitys design and its operation.
17.6 per cent growth in operating profit.
Energy-saving benefits due to: Market conditions in the UK sector remained favourable in 2008, Sedum plant roofs which conserve heat.
underpinned by long-term trends towards Concrete structure used as heat store.
outsourcing as customers continue to Building management system including control of window opening closing seek to reduce costs and improve linked to roof-mounted weather-sensing station.
operational efficiency by purchasing Movement sensors operating lights.
We continue to see COcontrolled classroom environment and night-time cooling, minimising 2 significant potential in this market as mechanical ventilation.
there is a limited number of service Photovoltaic electricity generation.
providers with our scale and capability that are able to deliver full-scope FM Other benefits: contracts.
Fewer emissions due to energy reduction measures and use of Glulam timber see Raw materials case study, page 10.
During the year we made progress in CO and pollutant absorption in sedum roofing.
2 three key areas of strategic Reduced use of non-renewable resources - biomass boiler using development, namely: locally-supplied woodchips.
There is an increasing Reduced water consumption due to rainwater-harvesting system.
requirement for us to support our Reduced capital and running costs.
current and future customers in Promotion of positive environmental behaviour among achieving key sustainable targets.
mid 2008 we launched our Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 11 Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 12 Directors report Business review continued Operational review continued RENEWABLES sustainability programme to help clients meet these objectives and are greatly encouraged by the Noise, nuisance and dust traction that this initiative has gained.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office FCO contract has given us a footprint in northern Europe for the first time.
We opened a new centralised helpdesk service centre in Redditch during 2008.
We believe this initiative will assist us in maintaining and further developing our client relationships.
Our business developed strongly in this environment, maintaining a customer retention rate in excess of 90 per cent and winning new clients and contracts during the year, including: Defra: a 15-year Sustainable Built Armada defence accommodation Environment Workplace Support contract, with a core services value The Armada project is a major PFI undertaking for the MoDs Defence Equipment and of approximately 500 million.
The Support on behalf of the Naval Base Commander, Devonport.
Signed four years ago, it contract encompasses a range of involves the creation, operation and maintenance of the MoDs new Single Living operational FM services such as Accommodation facilities at the Fleet Accommodation Centre in Devonport.
The facility buildings maintenance and waste reached its fully operational phase on schedule during 2008.
We have been delivering management as well more strategic FM services since construction began and shall continue to do so for a further 21 years.
services such as energy procurement, The contract included the requirement to demolish a number of old buildings as well professional and project services and as to construct new ones.
Within our environmental management programme we fleet management.
Uniquely, continually look at new solutions to waste management issues, and recognised an Interserve will use its RENEWABLES opportunity at Devonport to reuse, on the MoD estate, waste which would previously programme to play a major role in have been consigned to landfill.
Other materials within the buildings to be demolished helping Defra to reach and exceed were identified and segregated and were given to local not-for-profit organisations and its sustainability targets.
FCO: a 70 million contract to provide This approach reduced noise and dust on site as well as minimising disruption to a range of FM services across the FCOs neighbouring facilities and the local community.
It also resulted in cost savings and estate, including not only the UK but landfill diversion.
also 14 diplomatic missions in Europe.
Noise, nuisance and dust benefits: The contract is for seven years, with a possible extension of up to three Less noise, nuisance and dust due to: further years.
reduced frequency of transport less material entering skips MoD Corsham PFI: a 194 million contract for the provision of a range reduced materials handling due to use of dedicated chutes to segregate waste into separate skips of FM services to the MoDs new centre of excellence for communications Other benefits: once its 25-year operational phase Reduced costs, emissions and impact on land due to: commences in 2011. transport reduction GDF Storage a subsidiary of GDF reuse and recycling of equipment Suez : a multi-million pound contract for the provision of mechanical, Reuse and recycling statistics: electrical and instrumentation services Furniture: 1,000 beds, 500 tables and 1,500 chairs reused required for a new underground gas 85,000 tonnes of concrete reprocessed storage facility in Cheshire.
150 tonnes of timber recycled Cost savings: 150,000 It is pleasing that the success of our long-term client relationships continues 12 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 13 to be recognised at industry awards.
At the Premises and Facilities Management PFM awards we won the Overall Winner award for the partnership between Interserves Project Armada and the MoD.
This is the second consecutive year that Interserve has won the overall award - on both occasions in partnership with the MoD.
Project Armada is a 460 million, 25-year contract to create, operate and maintain the MoDs new Single Living Accommodation at the Fleet Accommodation Centre in Devonport.
Elsewhere our associate, PriDE, won the Emissions prestigious Sustainability Award at the British Institute of Facilities Management BIFM awards in 2008.
The PriDE joint Homes in Havering venture with Southern Electric Contracting SEC is a seven-year, Homes in Havering is an ALMO an arms-length management organisation owned by 380 million contract involving estate the London Borough of Havering and responsible for managing, maintaining and management and construction at almost improving the local housing stock, comprising more than 10,000 properties.
Interserve 100 MoD sites in south-east England.
is contracted by Homes in Havering to deliver a range of services including the repair Initiatives such as the development and and maintenance of heating systems.
implementation of a Sustainable One of the locations covered is a sheltered-housing complex called Beehive Court, built Development Management System earned in 1973.
The heating system, including large, inefficient and unreliable boilers and a client endorsement for PriDE as the water tanks which fell short of current Legionella legislation, had reached the end of leading environmental champion on the its life.
Interserve assessed the environment and discussed a number of possible military estate.
As a result we fitted: New boilers with the latest heating controls to ensure maximum efficiency.
This division provides a variety of Solar panels, along with piping and controls enabling them to work in concert with specialised outsourced services which are the boilers.
usually delivered discretely but can form part of a bundled package to customers Emissions benefits: of the Facilities Management or Project Reduced CO emissions and energy saving: 2 Services divisions.
Such services comprise solar panels provide up to 25% of the water temperature gain security, mechanical and electrical M&E appliances are up to 20% more efficient design, installation and maintenance and technical services including asbestos Other benefits: surveying and remediation, lift Less noise in operation due to boiler design and improved maintenance, heating, ventilation and air insulation improves residents quality of life.
Around two-thirds Reduced maintenance requirement through system reliability.
of its revenues are generated from the Compliance of water system with the latest safety requirements.
Results summary: 2008 2007 Change improve in the near term, we have marketplace, resulted in sharp Revenue 168.2m 190.2m 11.6 % implemented a number of cost reduction reductions in profitability.
Contribution to Total 1.0m 6.7m 85.1 % measures across the division.
Our Operating Profit engineering services operation was Against this challenging backdrop there Margin 0.6% 3.5% 2.9 % pts affected by reduced private sector client was progress elsewhere in the division.
spending which exacerbated competitive The HVAC operation is recovering after The results for this division were pressures and increased margin dilution.
management action to address the issues disappointing, with two of the three Our security business has a significant highlighted last year.
Our strategy of operations being heavily impacted by dependence on the financial sector in leveraging existing Interserve Group the challenging private sector market the City of London.
In the current customer relationships in the public conditions during 2008 and several economic environment this client base sector resulted in several significant one-off charges.
As a result, and given has made substantial spending cuts contract wins: for instance the Corsham market conditions are not expected to which, in a highly competitive PFI contract led to the award of an Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 13 Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 14 Directors report Business review continued Operational review continued 18 million contract for our engineering services team.
This project comprises M&E services for new-build office and Water living accommodation, a new sports facility and significant security and external works.
The design for the works has already commenced with installation beginning in early 2009 and completion scheduled for 2013.
Following earlier successes with Project Services on the Leeds BSF programme the division also won work valued in excess of 10 million on two new leisure centres and Swallow Hill secondary school.
Despite encountering tough market conditions the division was awarded several notable contracts during the year, including: British Airways Maintenance: we won a 10 million, five-year extension to our contract for the provision of services Rainwater harvesting, HM Prison Garth at British Airways maintenance sites in Cardiff and Glasgow.
HMP Garth, near Preston, Lancashire, is a category B training prison which originally opened in 1988.
Nearly 20 years later Interserve was asked to extend the facility, Land Registry: our technical services providing an additional 180-cell houseblock with associated administration and office operation was awarded a contract for areas.
The prison now has a total of 847 cells.
planned and reactive maintenance for the Land Registry.
The contract term is The Prison Service requires all new buildings to be environmentally acceptable and for three years with an opportunity to energy-efficient and to take account of whole-life costs.
Given the high water demand add an additional two years.
in custodial premises, an objective was to minimise the use of mains water on the site.
A waste water management strategy was established and a rainwater harvesting London Borough of Lambeth: we won system was investigated and implemented.
a four-year, 12 million contract to provide a full range of maintenance The system is expected to recover some 1.5 million litres of water a year, which is services for all 12 corporate council more than enough to meet the houseblocks demand although a mains supply is still buildings within the borough with needed to cover maintenance periods and times with reduced rainfall.
The extra reactive repairs also undertaken to initial costs are recovered within the first few years and the system shows significant an additional 68 council buildings.
whole-life savings in addition to its environmental benefits.
Atlas Elektronik: the provision of We also took the opportunity to minimise the energy associated with meeting the mechanical, electrical and general demand for hot water, installing a series of ground-loop hydraulic coils below the building maintenance.
Atlas surface of the hard-standing areas, which were finished with asphalt to maximise the Elektroniks manufacturing facility absorption of solar energy.
in Newport produces specialist Benefits: communication equipment for the military.
Reduction in mains water demand of up to 1.5 million litres a year based on average rainfall for the area.
DTZ: the provision of security services Improved water management using information gained from meters monitoring for DTZs estate across south-east rainwater usage.
Reduced drainage requirement for surface water.
Civil Justice Centre, Bristol: a Reduced run-off.
5.9 million contract for the installation Shows a positive economic return - predicted payback within 5-7 years.
of the mechanical, electrical and Reduced reliance on utility water supply.
public health services at this new Supports HMPSs Sustainability Policy.
centre in Bristol, comprising eight civil courts, six hearing rooms and Meets HMPSs requirement to achieve Excellent BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment method rating.
14 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 15 Project Services Project Services works in close collaboration with clients in the UK and the Middle East, providing professional services to lead the design and construction process in the creation of a broad range of buildings and infrastructure.
Results summary: 2008 2007 Change Revenue UK only 770.8m 759.5m 1.5% Contribution to Total 39.7m 29.4m 35.0% Operating Profit UK 15.2m 13.5m 12.6% International associates 24.5m 15.9m 54.1% Margin UK only 2.0% 1.8% 0.2% pts Continued strong demand in our Middle Eastern markets underpinned a significant increase in activity levels, Adapting buildings resulting in a contribution to total operating profit up 35.0 per cent on 2007.
These results were buoyed by the for climate change weakness of sterling and favourable contract settlements in the Middle East.
Nevertheless, constant-currency growth Welbeck, the Defence Sixth Form College was a substantial 28.9 per cent and our UK operations posted stronger margins.
Welbeck, the Defence Sixth Form College, caters for some 340 fast-track A-level students aspiring to enter the three armed services and the MoD civil service.
When Fundamental to our success in both the original college became unable to meet modern educational needs the MoD regions has been our ability to manage commissioned the design and construction of a facility to replace it.
The hallmark resources to meet demand while of the new college would be excellence in its teaching, sporting, medical and residential facilities.
maintaining our reputation for timely and cost-effective delivery.
We have a Interserves PFI consortium not only delivered this but did so with a conscious focus very clear view of the kind of work on equipping the college to operate efficiently and minimise any contribution to which is right for us.
Factors we consider climate change.
Interserve was named PFI Contractor of the Year in the 2006 include the clients partnership style, Building Awards for the Welbeck project, which was also awarded a SEAM Schools the size of the contract, the level of Environmental Assessment Method - now replaced by BREEAM A Rating.
risk and the extent to which our supplychain relationships and ability to manage A variety of design features result in reduced energy usage and associated CO 2 logistical complexity can be brought emissions, lower water consumption and economic savings over the life of the into play.
Features include: The majority of Project Services UK work comes from a large number of Extensive use of natural ventilation including high-level windows which give cross-ventilation and reduce the need for mechanical alternatives.
, low-risk projects with long-standing clients who value our Overhangs built into the roofs of south-facing rooms in order to limit solar understanding of their business and our gain and reduce air-conditioning requirements.
input to their planning process.
Around A sophisticated building management system incorporating a range of sensors three-quarters of our activity is in the which automatically adjust the control parameters to minimise energy usage while maintaining a comfortable environment.
In the Middle East, where we have been Sedum plant roofs, which limit heat loss.
active across the region for more than Sustainability is built into operations.
For example, trees on the 25 years, our associate partners play a estate are actively managed to protect existing ones and are key role in knowing the local business supplemented with new planting where feasible, contributing environment and advising which are to good carbon management.
the right potential clients with whom we can build mutually beneficial Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 15 Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 16 Directors report Business review continued Operational review continued working relationships.
In an uncertain economic environment, such partnerships are of vital importance.
United Kingdom In the UK we continued to secure a high level of repeat business with key customers in our chosen sectors of expertise: education, health, custodial, defence, and water and highways infrastructure.
During 2008 we completed three schools in the Leeds BSF programme worth 80 million in revenue and began construction on four more.
Major awards elsewhere in the education sector Being health & wellbeing included Kingswood School, Corby 21 million, Torbay Community College and communities 23 million and St Helens College, Merseyside 22 million.
In total we completed 12 new schools generating revenues in the year of 128 million and refurbished a further 10 worth 40 million in the year.
In health we extended our nationwide Interserve Pathways to Work coverage by securing a place soon after year end as one of five contractors on Interserve runs a Pathways to Work programme for a variety of disadvantaged social the 600 million NHS Scotland groups including those with physical or learning difficulties, ex-offenders and armed Frameworks Scotland programme, which services veterans.
complements our existing framework In partnership with local authorities and charities we identify unskilled individuals who agreements in England ProCure21 and may benefit from being given the opportunity to get into work.
Involving our areaand Wales Designed for Life: Building for site-management teams to ensure candidates receive specific support, we initially offer Wales.
We are currently working on entry-level employment where no existing skills are required, and during the working 70 projects totalling 140 million in day give on-the-job training leading on to more specialised and personal development the health sector.
awards in the year included: All candidates are assessed during a two-week period at specific sites by a fully-trained A 19 million hospital at Malvern for Interserve team working closely with the body concerned.
Following this period suitable Worcestershire Primary Care Trust.
candidates are able to select from appropriate available positions in skilled trades, apprenticeship schemes or other fields within Interserve.
The 45 million development of the Childrens Hospital for Wales in Cardiff.
Benefits for individuals: Improved quality of life.
A new 30 million maternity ward and day surgery for Poole Hospital, Dorset.
Confidence, enhanced perception of self-worth and a sense of purpose.
Stability, providing a platform on which to build a successful life and The refurbishment of the Acute Hospital contribute to society.
in Bangor and construction of a new Motivation through company investment in personal development.
Accident & Emergency department at Improvement of knowledge and skills, enhancing career prospects.
Withybush Hospital, Haverfordwest combined value 62 million.
Benefits for communities: The 18 million adult mental health Social and financial gains for the local community through unit at Wrexham Maelor Hospital.
Reduction in potential negative behaviour as candidates Our leading position as a prison recognise the benefits of employment.
contractor was further enhanced in 2008.
Less need for state support by enabling candidate independence.
We delivered the 80 million 796-place HMP Addiewell prison near Edinburgh on time and within budget and we also won 16 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 17 work worth over 50 million for prison Association plus the Target Zero Safety health, safety and the environment for extensions and refurbishments at HMP Award from the Highways Agency.
the Shell Pearl Gas-to-Liquids project.
Forest Bank, HMP Bronzefield and HMP New contracts won include a three-year Our renovation of the A166 bridge over Holme House.
Our work in this sector contract with Ras Gas to carry out plant the River Derwent at Stamford Bridge extends to detention centres, and modification and maintenance and a received recognition from the Institute during the year we completed the new two-year contract with Total to provide of Civil Engineers for its excellence in 42 million Gatwick immigration centre.
With a continuing shortage in UK prison During 2008 we constructed a new capacity we believe this sector will Following previous awards in 2007 the fabrication facility at Ras Laffan.
It is continue to provide a long-term pipeline fascia replacement of Westminster also our intention to develop a of opportunities whilst fulfilling an Bridge won another prestigious award, complementary electrics and important need for the country.
the 2008 IStructE Heritage Award for instrumentation capability to sit Infrastructure, which is one of the alongside our existing service provision.
In infrastructure we continued to worlds leading awards for structural develop our strong relationships with engineering excellence.
In the UAE, the market in Dubai has clients such as Thames Water, United slowed in recent months as many Utilities and the Highways Agency.
In July Middle East planned schemes are re-appraised in 2008 we were part of the consortium to Demand continued to rise in the Middle light of the current economic climate.
be awarded 200 million worth of work East for the high quality construction There remains, however, a good stream on the Thames Gateway Water Treatment services provided by our associate of tenders which, together with work Plant for Thames Water.
already secured, will underpin workload projects with a value of 28 million for through 2009 and into 2010.
We United Utilities via our KMI joint venture In our most significant market in the completed work on the Ibis Novotel in as part of its AMP4 capital investment region, Qatar, activity levels remained Port Saeed during the year and we programme, and undertook a similar extremely buoyant in 2008.
Our associate commenced further hotels, in Barsha and level of work with Severn Trent.
In the companies continued to work with their Deira, all for the Majid Al Futtaim Group.
roads sector our regional framework major long-term customers including Our specialist divisions completed the agreements with the Highways Agency in Siemens, Areva, ABB, Exxon Mobil and fit-out of all the Atlantis Hotel the south-east, midlands and north-east Qatar National Bank.
New awards restaurants for Kersner to great acclaim continued to deliver a good stream of included the construction of an office and have recently secured fit-outs for work during 2008.
We completed the A38 block and two amenities blocks for the the Fairmont Hotel, Palm Jumeirah and Dobwalls Bypass, worth 30 million, and Qatar Gas Transport Company Ltd and a the Marina Hotel on Yas Island, Abu our work to add five new roundabouts on new hotel for Qatar Airways.
We have also secured new the A1 helped remove bottlenecks and our mechanical and electrical service construction and facilities services significantly improved traffic flow.
business became the first contractor opportunities in Abu Dhabi, a growing selected by Qatar Cool to carry out market for us which will counter the In addition to cementing our strong hot tapping of underground chilled more subdued market in Dubai.
position in these sectors we continue to water pipework, a fast-growing solution explore new opportunities to use our in the provision of air conditioning to In Oman, we successfully completed skills and expertise.
This has lead to our commercial and residential developments.
a further three PAC Permanent first appointment as preferred bidder in Accommodation for Contractors unit the waste sector, a PFI PPP joint venture The Madina Group, in which we have a extensions for Renaissance Services in Derby with United Utilities for the 49 per cent beneficial interest and which during the year.
This was followed later construction of waste treatment plants.
operates both offshore and onshore in in the year by the award of two large Driven by increasing regulatory the oil, gas and petrochemical industries new PACs, again for Renaissance requirements from the EU we believe this and provides fabrication, installation, Services, the largest contract ever sector has significant growth potential.
testing, commissioning, manpower and awarded to our Omani associate training services, continues to go from company.
We extended our relationship During 2008 we continued to win strength to strength.
The companys with Occidental through a three-year recognition and accolades from industry major customers include Maersk, Total, agreement for civil and infrastructure bodies for our achievements, including: Qatar Vinyl Company QVC, Shell, Gulf works at the Mukhaizna oilfield.
Drilling and most recently Ras Gas.
The Leeds BSF programme won two Significant contracts carried out this year We entered 2009 with current year national awards at the Excellence in include an upgrade for Total comprising future workload equivalent to around BSF Awards.
the fabrication and installation of a 75 per cent of 2008 revenues, which is The A66 Long Newton junction won a topside module on one of their offshore a strong platform for another successful Green Apple Award for Environmental platforms, and a contract to provide year in the region.
Best Practice from the Green training in leadership, supervision, Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 17 Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 18 Directors report Business review continued Operational review continued Equipment Services Equipment Services provides temporary structural equipment and the engineering designs for use in complex infrastructure and building projects.
The business generates revenue through both hire contracts and equipment sales of both new and used components and operates out of three regional hubs in the UK, Middle East and Australia.
Results summary: 2008 2007 Change Revenue 171.7m 132.0m 30.1% Contribution to Total Land use 29.6m 23.9m 23.8% Operating Profit Margin 17.2% 18.1% 0.9 % pts A66, Long Newton, County Durham Our progress during 2008 was based on continued buoyancy in the Middle East Working for the Highways Agency, Interserve designed and built a grade-separated together with a record year in Australia junction comprising a new bridge over the A66 west of Long Newton, with slip roads which offset a more challenging connecting the A66 to the local road network and a revised link to the road leading to environment in Europe.
The weakness of Durham Tees Valley Airport.
A new road was also built to the east, linking the villages of Elton and Long Newton.
sterling boosted the divisions results, contributing 10.4 percentage points of Surveys were carried out of the local flora and fauna with a particular focus on spiked the overall growth of 23.8 per cent.
sedge, badgers, newts and bats.
The design was developed to take these issues into The division also benefited from the account and a screen of over 38,500 trees and shrubs was planted.
Three large ponds substantial fleet investment made in were created as part of the drainage retention system and were planted with aquatic recent years and from our strategy of species to provide an enhanced wildlife habitat.
operating across a wide range of geographies and market sectors.
This In lieu of crushed stone, to create the schemes embankments we used 117,000 tonnes enables the transfer of equipment to of pulverised fuel ash PFA, a by-product from the burning of coal in power stations.
areas of high demand, thus optimising This avoided the need to bring in stone aggregates.
The use of lightweight materials also meant that there was a reduced requirement for foundations, providing further asset productivity and mitigating the savings in raw materials.
effects of inherent country-specific cyclicality.
No materials were taken off site.
By crushing concrete on site and planing out the old tarmac road surfacing, we were able to re-use materials on access roads.
Among the many projects for which we designed engineering solutions and The project has been awarded a Green Apple environmental award and the Highways provided equipment were: Agencys Target Zero safety award 2008.
Saadiyat Island Expressway, Abu Dhabi, Benefits: UAE support for eight bridge Mitigation arrangements minimised impact on local wildlife and aquatic environment.
structures totalling 55,700 square metres of deck area, plus a cutCareful planning reduced project CO emissions.
10,572 tonnes saved through use of 2 PFA instead of quarried stone total carbon footprint for project measured as 11,700 and-cover tunnel structure tonnes.
The transformation of Saadiyat Island Improved air quality by eliminating standing traffic at junctions.
into a residential and leisure hub Improved safety and reduced through-village traffic.
is one of the UAE capitals most Communities of Long Newton and Elton are now re-linked after 40 years of important development projects.
Project enabled introduction of new local bus services.
Third Millennium Bridge, Spain formwork and falsework solutions Close contact and involvement with the local community throughout to construct the worlds largest the project meant that everyone understood what was happening.
We established an excellent relationship with the staff and children Encompassing six traffic lanes, two of the local St Marys primary school, where our initiatives included bicycle lanes and two pedestrian organising a number of educational site tours where the pupils lanes, the bridge provided visitor learned about the construction at close quarters.
access for the International Expo Zaragoza in 2008.
18 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 19 Raine Square Development, Perth, Western Australia support during the construction of this A$550 million landmark development in Perth.
The building includes a number of unique features such as the use of twin lifts - the first of their kind in Australia - which can travel in either the same or opposing direction within the one lift shaft, reducing the lift shaft size by half and increasing the net lettable area of the building.
Royal London Hospital - shoring and soffit panel system for the construction of the 17-storey reinforced concrete frame, which represents phase one of the 10-year, 1 billion redevelopment of the Royal London Hospital in Whitechapel.
Regionally: Economic considerations Middle East and Africa Our Middle East operation again performed strongly in excellent market conditions and now contributes more than half of divisional profit.
All three of the principal countries where we have offices UAE, Qatar and Bahrain did Vehicle tracking, Slough Borough Council well.
Our new Abu Dhabi operation in the UAE is allowing us to optimise fleet Economics are an integral part of sustainable development, enabling the continuation utilisation by migrating equipment to of business and the sharing of wealth to the benefit of society as a whole.
this new market from Dubai, where the frenetic market activity of recent years Interserve uses a workforce of around 250 to provide a range of facilities services has abated.
Significant new contracts to Slough Borough Council covering an estate of approximately 6,900 homes and include work at Yas Island and on the 70 council buildings.
To do so we run a fleet of some 75 vehicles.
We also leveraged the existing strong In order to ascertain if the vehicles were being managed in the most efficient way we relationships that our Project Services installed trackers which show the journeys undertaken by each vehicle.
Analysing the associates have in the region to win information has enabled us to identify opportunities to make adjustments to vehicle work supplying equipment for the movements, for example by re-routing or by combining trips which would previously have used more than one vehicle.
structural elements of the International Hotel at Doha Airport in Qatar and East This has resulted in direct financial savings in addition to the environmental Hotel at the Mall of the Emirates in benefits of traffic reduction.
During 2009 we plan to extend our footprint in the region to Saudi Benefits: Arabia, the largest addressable Cost savings 30% reduction of transport cost.
construction market in the Gulf.
Exports to the North African countries of A reduction in mileage of 16%, with an associated reduction in fuel consumption.
Libya, Morocco and Algeria continue to make good contributions.
Our operation Reduced annual CO emissions, based on Defras conversion factor, 2 of 15.3kg per vehicle total for the fleet annually of over 1 tonne.
in South Africa consolidated its position since opening in 2007 and we look Reduced maintenance.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 19 Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 20 Directors report Business review continued Operational review continued Australasia and Far East Our Australian business had a record year, boosted by infrastructure and mining markets.
2009 is likely to prove more challenging as new mining projects are postponed, although civil engineering works are likely to maintain a healthy activity level.
Despite a robust performance from the Philippines the contribution from the Far East remained weak, affected particularly by adverse conditions in Korea and Hong Kong.
With Solid and a limited outlook in these territories we have been taking actions to downsize hazardous operations and redeploy fleet to more buoyant markets.
waste Europe Defence Training Estate After a strong first half our UK business suffered as the economy contracted during the latter part of the year, which The Defence Training Estate DTE, managed by Interserves subsidiary, Landmarc, led to a fall in commercial building comprises some 130 training areas and ranges in England, Scotland and Wales.
Work associated with major covers approximately 1 per cent of the British land mass.
infrastructure projects across London, After winning the contract we undertook a review of arrangements within the estate such as the East London line, the to ensure compliance with the latest waste legislation.
In the past MoD waste had Olympics facilities and Crossrail, is been sent directly to landfill.
Our investigations highlighted issues resulting from this likely to result in a robust UK civil approach, including significant quantities of potentially recyclable materials mainly engineering market in 2009, but the cardboard and metals being consigned to landfill and instances of improper disposal commercial market is likely to continue of potentially hazardous waste in the general waste stream.
Our Irish and Spanish operations also experienced a very The decision was taken to develop mini waste-sorting stations at the six biggest DTE strong start to 2008 before slowing sites.
A trial was run at one site initially, helping to reduce set up costs at the other during the second half of the year.
In five as it provided a greater understanding of the operational requirements.
With all six sites up and running we can now monitor the disposal of waste and segregate it all our European operations we have to ensure that correct waste streams are used and that recyclable waste is handled cost reduction programmes underway appropriately.
Opportunities for reusing some of the waste can now also be explored.
as the environment is expected to remain challenging during 2009.
Benefits: Reduced waste to landfill.
Reduced risk of improper disposal, avoiding pollution and possible notices fines.
Helping the client meet central government objectives and targets on waste.
Facilitates waste reduction schemes - improved information on waste gathered allows an understanding of what waste is produced and from which activities.
Reduced storage requirements compactors and shredders used.
Reduced emissions from waste carriers: less waste to transport in total: use of central stations ensures only full skips are collected.
20 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 21 Construction was completed on four PFI Investments projects during the year, all of which The PFI Investments division leads all the are now fully operational.
At University Groups PFI activities.
It manages our College London Hospital the 676-bed investment portfolio and, in many cases, Elizabeth Garrett Anderson wing opened, delivers management services to the whilst elsewhere Holy Cross College Special Purpose Companies established to in Northern Ireland, the Plymouth run the contracts.
schools project and the MoDs Fleet Accommodation Centre in Devonport 2008 2007 Change all moved into their operational stage.
Contribution to Total 2.8m 2.1m 33.3% Operating Profit We now have a total of 23 operational Interest received on PFI projects, with eight more under subordinated debt 4.7m 4.5m 4.4% construction in two of which we are investments providing interim services while 7.5m 6.6m 13.6% construction is under way.
In its entirety our PFI portfolio now comprises During the year we reached financial 31 closed PFI projects plus three more close on five contracts.
This included at preferred bidder stage.
two further projects within the Leeds BSF programme, the Swallow Hill Our investment commitment in signed secondary school and two new leisure projects has now reached 74.4 million, centres at Morley and Armley.
This of which 46.9 million had been paid at latter project is notable for being the 31 December 2008.
The two preferred first ever non-education PFI contract bidder projects that we secured during in the BSF programme.
The remaining the year will involve investment of a three deals that closed were Pembury further 10.0 million.
Hospital in Tunbridge Wells, Derry schools in Northern Ireland and the The requirement for investment by MoDs communications centre at government in social infrastructure Corsham.
Interserve is providing both remains strong, albeit the current construction and FM services to the funding issues are likely to mean that Leeds BSF projects and FM services the environment for closing PFI deals to the three other contracts.
will be more challenging in 2009, in particular for the larger deals.
We were named preferred bidder on two new projects during the year: Down & Group Services Connor schools and Enniskillen hospital, Costs accounted for within Group Services both in Northern Ireland.
More recently of 17.9 million 2007: 16.7 million we also secured preferred bidder status relate to our PFI bidding activity, a range for the Derby PPP waste treatment of centrally-provided services and the contract.
This latter project is Group Board.
particularly pleasing as it represents a new sector where we see strong longterm prospects, driven by increasing regulation from the EU.
We shall be providing FM services to the Down & Connor and Enniskillen projects.
At the Derby waste treatment plant we will perform the construction and United Utilities will operate the plant.
