09 Annual Report 2008 09 Operating Review Intertek is a global market leader in many industries supporting customers in the international market place and ensuring that their products comply with their own quality and safety standards and all relevant external regulations.
customers problems, 3D laser scanning, Group Overview electromagnetic compatibility testing, minerals assay Who we are and performance testing amongst many others.
Our services cover the whole supply chain including We provide inspection services to manufacturers, the sourcing of raw materials, product design, retailers, bulk commodity traders, governments and manufacturing processes, compliance certifi cations international buyers and sellers of goods, including and performance testing of the end product.
Our factory evaluation, quality inspection, custody customers range from major household names and transfer, pre-production, in-production, final international corporations to niche suppliers, random sampling, pre-shipment and loading globally and locally.
With over 1,000 facilities in supervision.
We hold an extensive range of global more than 100 countries and over 23,000 accreditations, recognitions and agreements to employees, we can provide services in almost every provide certification services for manufacturers, country in the world.
retailers and traders to enable them to sell products in virtually any market in the world.
Our audit What we do services check whether a process, system or facility Intertek is a global market leader providing safety is performing in the prescribed manner.
This and quality services to customers to add value to includes corporate social responsibility auditing to their products and processes and support their ensure that factory conditions, especially in success in the global market place.
We offer a comprehensive range of services from testing, developing countries, meet the standards required inspection and certification through to auditing, by our clients.
We also offer an extensive range of and consultancy.
Using  consultancy and training services.
Our services are methods, standards, equipment and guidelines, integrated together to provide our customers with a complete and customised service that meets the we test consumer products, commercial products, precise requirements of the different industries in commodities, food, and raw materials for quality which they operate.
control, research, vendor compliance, and against regulatory and customer requirements.
Our market Intertek provides services to a wide range of Our testing methods use a wide range of skills including complex analytical laboratory techniques industry sectors, including Aerospace & Automotive, in the fields of organic and inorganic chemistry and Building Products, Chemicals, Consumer Goods biochemistry, critical analysis to trouble-shoot & Retailers, Electrical & Electronic, Energy, 28653 pp001-027.
com Directors Report Business Review Operating Review Food & Agriculture, Industrial, IT & Telecom, in those locations and for those industries that could be affected by a severe downturn.
Medical & Pharmaceutical, Minerals, Petroleum, Toys, Games & Hardlines and Textiles, Apparel & Our employees Footwear.
Each industry has its own characteristics At 31 December 2008, the Group employed 23,841 but there are a number of key drivers for our people 2007: 21,303 in over 100 countries.
Our services common to all markets.
These are global people include highly skilled scientists and engineers and local trade through new product development, with specialist knowledge of the industries in which increasing consumer demand for good quality, we operate.
Many are educated to degree level and safe and environmentally friendly products, above and are peer group leaders in their fields of more stringent regulations, and the increasing expertise.
Our operations are located close to our requirement for independent certification of the customers and our strategy is to employ and quantity and quality of traded commodities.
develop people native to those locations as they have a better understanding of local issues and By outsourcing their testing to us, customers reduce cultures and can build strong customer relationships.
the cost of maintaining in-house testing facilities Through their appointed relationship manager, and they benefit from the economies of scale that our clients can access all the services and expertise we can achieve by higher utilisation of the laboratory offered by our global network.
Through our Intertek equipment and personnel.
Many products are as One programme we emphasise the need to subject to increased regulation to protect consumers join together to ensure our customers receive a and the environment.
For example, the recently co-ordinated and cohesive service.
We have a strong enacted US Consumer Product Safety Improvement emphasis on training and professional development Act CPSIA contains many provisions concerning and this together with the strength of our collective the safety and quality of consumer goods and more leadership ensures that our employees remain stringent requirements for childrens products.
motivated to deliver a world class service.
In the European Union, the Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals REACH regulations Our impact on the environment cover over 30,000 chemicals used in products.
Being a service industry, energy consumption is not We advise our customers on the regulatory a material part of our cost base.
In 2008, 1.3% of developments that are applicable to their products our total costs were spent on gas and electricity.
in the markets they choose.
However, we are mindful of our impact on the environment and, where possible, take measures to Despite slower economic activity, the key growth reduce energy consumption and eliminate waste.
drivers behind the Intertek business model remain Our internal meetings are increasingly held by intact.
We tend to test products at the prototype conference call to reduce our emissions footprint.
stage and therefore our business is driven by product We recycle waste paper and we dispose of our development activity rather than the volume of waste products responsibly and in compliance with products sold.
We expect this to help maintain our applicable legislation.
In the UK and Ireland we growth through an economic recession although operate a green company car policy.
the economic downturn in 2009 is likely to see our business growing at a slower rate than in 2008.
We Our main impact on the environment is through will continue to respond accordingly by ensuring our the services we offer to customers.
We test the cost base is aligned with a reduced level of growth performance and evaluate the efficiency of products Intertek Group Revenue Consumer Goods 25% Commercial & Electrical 20% Oil, Chemical & Agri 31% Government Services 5% Other Divisions 19% 28653 pp001-027.
indd 10 6 3 09 13:40:40 11 Annual Report 2008 11 and advise customers of ways in which they can Services, Minerals and Industrial Services as sectors improve their products and processes to reduce in which to invest for future growth.
Since we usually perform our work are managed independently but are grouped at the design stage of product development, the together as New Divisions due to their relatively small amount of energy that we use to conduct small size in comparison to the other divisions.
our tests is far outweighed by the global benefits Analytical Services and Minerals were formerly part to the environment of our clients using our advice of the Oil, Chemical & Agri division and Industrial to produce energy efficient products on a larger Services includes Systems Certification, which was scale.
Our services are supporting the growing previously included in Commercial & Electrical, and alternative energy sectors such as photovoltaic, Industrial Inspection which was previously included bio fuels and wind energy.
More details about our in Government Services.
No material costs were employees and the environment are provided in incurred to effect this reorganisation.
our Corporate Social Responsibility Report which Under our new structure, central overhead costs are starts on page 59. allocated to each of the operating divisions and are Divisional structure therefore no longer separately disclosed.
In order to For management purposes we organise ourselves aid comparison with our previously reported results, into operating divisions combining similar industry the table below shows our 2008 results under both sectors.
We aim to operate a balanced portfolio of the new and the old structure.
businesses across industry sectors and regions.
In The Government Services division was restructured previous years the Group was structured into four at the end of 2008 and is being integrated into the main divisions: Consumer Goods: Commercial & Oil, Chemical & Agri division.
Thus from 1 January Electrical: Oil, Chemical & Agri: and Government 2009, we are operating in six divisions.
In response to growth opportunities in restructuring costs incurred are included in nonnew sectors and to increase our focus on customers in their specific industries, we identified Analytical recurring costs.
Integrated into the Oil, Chemical & Agri division from 1 January 2009.
com Directors Report Business Review Operating Review Our performance in 2008 1 Revenue Adjusted operating profit m 2008 Change at Change at 2008 Change at Change at actual constant actual constant rates rates rates rates Consumer Goods 250.4 38.2% 24.1% 75.7 44.5% 27.9% Commercial & Electrical 203.5 24.8% 13.9% 29.2 27.0% 12.3% Oil, Chemical & Agri 308.1 24.0% 14.5% 33.5 37.3% 25.5% Government Services 46.8 3.5% 3.5 % 6.4 6.7% 8.7 % New Divisions 194.7 41.6% 32.0% 19.9 25.9% 17.0% Revenue and Adjusted operating profit 1,003.5 29.4% 18.7% 164.7 35.4% 21.2% Amortisation 9.6 Impairment 0.5 Non-recurring costs 6.7 Operating profit 147.9 27.4% Net financing costs 9.5 Share of profit of associate 0.2 Profit before income tax 138.6 31.0% Income tax expense 36.4 Result for the year 1,003.5 29.4% 18.7% 102.2 29.7% 1.
Before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairment and non-recurring costs.
The Group had an excellent year and reported Part of the Groups growth strategy is to make revenue of just over 1 billion.
Revenue increased acquisitions which complement and extend the by 29.4% 18.7% at constant exchange rates Groups service offering into new areas of expertise and adjusted operating profit increased by 35.4% and new locations.
We made 14 acquisitions in 2008 21.2% at constant exchange rates.
The adjusted and 16 in 2007, which were located in 13 different operating margin was 16.4%, up 70 basis points countries.
These businesses have extended the from last year 30 basis points at constant range of services offered by the Group in a variety exchange rates.
of sectors including the minerals, food, pharmaceutical and chemical industries, and have increased the We calculate organic growth by excluding the Groups footprint in strategically important countries results of acquisitions made in 2007 and 2008. such as the USA, the UK, Australia and Germany.
On an organic basis, revenue grew by 22.5% The Group is able to leverage the return from these 12.3% at constant exchange rates and adjusted acquisitions by offering new services on a global operating profit grew by 28.4% 14.8% at basis to existing customers.
The organic growth was generated primarily by growth in the market Details of the performance of each division, including for quality and safety services, an increase in more information about the acquisitions are given in environmental regulations and an increase the Operating Review by division which starts on in outsourcing.
indd 12 6 3 09 00:17:07 13 Annual Report 2008 13 The market for our services continues to expand.
increasingly be looking to reduce the cost of Consumers and regulatory bodies are increasingly non-core activities such as in-house testing, concerned about the quality and safety of products which provides us with an opportunity to offer our and services and their impact on the environment.
We have been very successful in finding The number of global and domestic regulations acquisitions which extend our range of services.
regarding the environment and the safety and We have a pipeline of potential acquisitions which quality of products continue to increase.
we are pursuing and we will continue to seek other Manufacturers and retailers need to meet the opportunities to grow our business.
demands of their customers and ensure that they comply with quality and safety requirements, increasingly complex legislation and longer supply chains.
We work in partnership with our customers Revenue m to help them meet those demands and increase the value of their products and services.
29.4% Our business is based on facilitating trade and increasing consumer demand for product variety, 2008 1,003.5 quality and safety, as well as manufacturers desire to reduce overhead costs by outsourcing testing and 2007 775.4 inspection activities.
Our 2008 organic revenue growth at constant exchange rates was 12.3%.
Whilst a significant global recession will reduce our growth rate, we are very well diversified, both geographically and across industry sectors, which Adjusted operating profit m will help mitigate any adverse impact and provide us with growth opportunities.
35.4% The key growth drivers in our business model remain unchanged so our business is robust.
The 2008 164.7 current economic uncertainty makes it difficult to 2007 121.6 predict performance in 2009 and a prolonged decline in global trade will inevitably affect our customers and this might affect the volume of goods that we inspect.
In a severe, long-lasting downturn, some of our customers may undertake Adjusted operating profit margin fewer development projects and this could affect the number of products that we test and certify.
70bp Each of our divisions offers opportunities for organic growth through increasing our service offering to 2008 16.4% customers, to add value to their products and processes and help them compete in the global 2007 15.7% market.
We anticipate that businesses will 28653 pp001-027.
com Directors Report Business Review Operating Review largest sector in the division, grew well, particularly High growth from Consumer Goods in China with a strong performance in Toys and consumer concern What we do Hardlines.
This was mainly due to increased demand The Consumer Goods division is a market leading over toy safety for heavy metals testing driven by heightened provider of services to the textiles, toys, footwear, consumer concern over the safety of toys following hardlines, food and retail industries.
Services include the major product recalls that took place in 2007 testing, inspection, auditing, advisory services, and new regulations in the USA.
In August 2008, quality assurance and hazardous substance testing.
the US Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act Customers are often retailers but also include CPSIA was enacted.
CPSIA contains new manufacturers and suppliers within a global certification requirements, phthalate and lead limits, supply chain.
mandatory third-party testing requirements and The market for the services of the Consumer Goods many other provisions concerning the safety and division is diverse.
Demand is driven by retailers who quality of childrens goods.
Intertek has sixteen leading-edge laboratories accredited under CPSIA require the goods they sell to be produced to a and additional laboratories will be accredited in the quality set by either their own internal standards coming months.
or by legislation in a particular country.
Increasingly, materials are sourced and goods are manufactured Although still relatively small, revenue from the food in locations that are remote from the consumer, sector increased considerably and we made several causing supply chains to be longer and more acquisitions in this sector which will add to the complex.
The market is also being driven by growth in future.
regulations issued to address safety and environmental concerns over such issues as Total adjusted operating profit was 75.7m, carcinogenic dyes in textiles and chemicals in up 44.5% 27.9% at constant exchange rates.
Organic adjusted operating profit increased by 41.9% 25.3% at constant exchange rates.
Our performance in 2008 The total adjusted operating margin increased The Consumer Goods division delivered excellent 130 basis points to 30.2% from 28.9% in 2007. results with total revenue of 250.4m up 38.2% 24.1% at constant exchange rates and organic In April 2008, the Group acquired 4-Front Research, revenue up 34.0% 20.3% at constant exchange a group of companies in the UK, France and India rates.
Textiles, Apparel & Footwear which is the which provide analytical support for clinical research 28653 pp001-027.
indd 14 6 3 09 00:17:15 15 Annual Report 2008 15 studies on cosmetic, personal care, functional food large-scale toy testing laboratory in Guangzhou to and over-the-counter pharmaceutical and medical support the toy manufacturers located in Southern products.
This acquisition extends the services the China.
We also extended our REACH facilities in a Group is able to offer its consumer healthcare number of our laboratories.
customers and provides a strategic platform for The key growth drivers in Consumer Goods remain development in India and other fast growing Asian strong, principally the sourcing of products from markets for consumer healthcare products.
China, the increasingly wide range of products being sold by retailers and shorter product lifecycles.
Concern In 2008, the Group acquired three businesses over the safety of consumer products has increased which provide services to the food industry: Applica demand from consumers and regulatory bodies for GmbH, a company in Germany which provides independent assurance of quality and safety.
high-end analytical services with particular expertise in honey and bee products: EKO-lab, which provides Although two-thirds of revenue is derived from microbiological and chemical analysis services from toys and textiles testing, the remainder is from its laboratory in Poland: and the food facility auditing our expanding service lines such as consultancy, operations of RQA which is headquartered in Chicago, inspection, supply chain services, food and USA, but provides auditing services to more than corporate social responsibility where margins 100 countries.
are not always as high as those earned by the established services.
As many economies are In December 2008, the Group acquired Porst currently entering a recessionary phase, consumer & Partner GmbH, a highly recognised German spending is declining.
Whilst our business is laboratory providing consumer product testing and dependent on the variety of goods produced and environmental, food and microbiological analyses.
new product development rather than the volume Porst & Partners services include chemical analyses sold, a prolonged decline in consumer spending of consumer products, Restriction of Hazardous could result in a reduction in product development.
Substances RoHS compliance and Registration, We aim to grow our revenue by developing new Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals REACH services, integrating our services and providing related services.
innovative supply chain solutions to our customers.
In 2008, we continued to invest in our laboratory network, particularly in China where we opened a Paul Yao Group Executive Vice President Consumer Goods Change Change at actual at constant m rates rates Revenue 250.4 38.2% 24.1% Adjusted operating profit 75.7 44.5% 27.9% Adjusted operating margin 30.2% 130bp 90bp 28653 pp001-027.
com Directors Report Business Review Operating Review The Americas reported double digit organic growth Effective marketing Commercial & Electrical in revenue at constant exchange rates plus revenue campaigns and What we do from acquisitions.
Revenue in Asia also increased The Commercial & Electrical division provides growth of developing mainly due to good organic growth in China.
services including testing and certification, businesses Total revenue in Europe increased, although electromagnetic compatibility testing EMC, organic revenue growth declined slightly due to outsourcing, benchmark and performance testing underperformance in Italy and stagnant growth and environmental testing.
These are provided to in the rest of Europe.
a wide range of industries including the home appliance, lighting, medical, building, industrial Total adjusted operating profit was 29.2m, and HVAC R heating, ventilation, air conditioning up 27.0% 12.3% at constant exchange rates.
and refrigeration, IT, telecom, renewable energy Organic adjusted operating profit increased and automotive industries.
Our customers are by 20.5% 6.9% at constant exchange rates.
mostly manufacturers but also retailers, industry The total adjusted operating margin increased organisations and government departments.
The increase in margin Intertek has the widest range of owned marks and was due to a strong performance in the second half of 2008 when effective marketing campaigns accreditations, including the ETL listed mark, the Warnock Hersey mark for North America and the and the growth of developing businesses such as S mark, Asta mark and BEAB mark for Europe, as photovoltaic and energy efficiency had a positive well as being a leader in providing CB certification impact.
Cost cutting initiatives also helped the and the CE mark and GS mark for Europe.
The market for our Commercial & Electrical services In February 2008, the Group acquired Epsilon is driven primarily by increasing regulations over the Technical Services Ltd. Epsilon is based in the UK safety of products, product variety and growing and offers safety and advisory services to companies environmental concerns.
This includes current with products for use in potentially explosive concerns over climate change and the impact on atmospheres.
This acquisition complements and the environment of electrical products.
extends the Groups existing explosive environment certification services.
Our performance in 2008 Total revenue increased to 203.5m, up 24.8% In September 2008, the Group acquired HP White 13.9% at constant exchange rates and organic Laboratory Inc. a company based in Maryland USA, revenue increased by 19.0% 8.5% at constant which provides ballistic resistance testing and certification programmes for personal protective exchange rates.
The electrical sector which accounted for 60% of the divisions total revenue equipment PPE.
Intertek already tests PPE against grew well, particularly in the US, where increased fire and chemical hazards so adding ballistic acceptance of the ETL mark contributed to growth resistance testing will enable the Group to offer a in market share.
more comprehensive service to the PPE industry.
indd 16 6 3 09 14:06:11 17 Annual Report 2008 17 Our major investment projects during 2008, included the establishment of photovoltaic facilities Intertek the mark of quality in California, New York and Shanghai, consolidating For more than a 100 years, Intertek has guided our facilities in Boston, USA, extending our wireless clients through the challenging certification testing facility in Kentucky, USA and building a process.
Offering the broadest range of 35 ton psychrometric HVAC facility in Dallas, USA.
certification and accreditation marks accepted in markets around the world, Intertek can help Customer demand for safe, reliable, energy efficient clients to succeed in new and existing markets, products continues to increase and the market for meet evolving regulatory requirements and win Commercial & Electrical continues to evolve presenting new customers.
Market drivers in the medical and renewable energy sectors remain strong.
Concerns over climate change are driving new directives regarding the energy usage of products, particularly in the HVAC R industry and this is expected to extend to other industries.
The consumer market for home appliances and electronics is under pressure and the growth of information, communication and technology products is also slowing down.
This may provide us with opportunities as customers seek to maintain or increase their market share through product innovation, improvements in quality and durability, and performance comparisons, and cut their costs by improving efficiency.
The issues in the automotive industry are well documented and we do not anticipate any improvement in this market in the near future.
We are closely monitoring our business in this sector and will reduce costs if revenue continues to decline.
Market conditions in 2009 will provide both challenges and opportunities for the Commercial & Electrical division.
We will continue to strive for operational excellence and aim to strengthen our market share by offering superior service.
There are many small niche players in the market and this provides opportunities for us to continue adding infill acquisitions.
Gregg Tiemann Division Executive Vice President Commercial & Electrical Change Change 2008 at actual at constant m rates rates Revenue 203.5 24.8% 13.9% Adjusted operating profit 29.2 27.0% 12.3% Adjusted operating margin 14.3% 20bp 30 bp 28653 pp001-027.
com Directors Report Business Review Operating Review Hurricanes Ike and Gustav which hit the Gulf Coast Strong growth in all Oil, Chemical & Agri in the USA in September 2008, caused disruption to regions particularly What we do our laboratories and customers located in that area The Oil, Chemical & Agri division provides non-inspection and resulted in the Oil, Chemical & Agri division independent cargo inspection as well as nonrelated testing losing revenue of 2.1m in 2008. inspection related laboratory testing, calibration and related technical services.
Our customers In January 2008, we acquired Electrical Mechanical include the worlds energy, petroleum, chemical Instrument Services UK Ltd which provides and agricultural industries.
Cargo inspection and calibration services to the oil and gas industries in testing is a well established global market in which the UK and the Middle East and complements the Intertek is one of the leading service providers.
existing upstream services offered by the Group.
High barriers to entry are principally due to the The record high oil prices experienced in early fixed costs of establishing a global network of 2008 have since declined and the global economic operations and laboratories and our excellent downturn is now causing a decline in consumption reputation and experience earned through of crude oil and refined products which we expect decades of service in the industry.
The decline in the price Our performance in 2008 of oil has impacted trading and refining, as well Despite being affected by the hurricanes in the as speculative trading by financial institutions.
USA, Oil, Chemical & Agri delivered an excellent Customers will seek to reduce their costs and performance in 2008 with strong growth across improve efficiency which provides us with an all regions, particularly in non-inspection related opportunity to offer outsourcing solutions.
Total revenue increased to 308.1m, up anticipate that whilst alternative fuel producers 24.0% 14.5% at constant exchange rates and could face an increasing challenge to produce their organic revenue increased by 22.7% 13.3% at fuels at a profit, the decline in the green economy constant exchange rates.
The organic growth was will be short-term and that market based solutions driven by favourable market conditions, particularly to environmental and social issues will lead to an in the first half, higher demand for alternative fuels upsurge in bio fuel technology.
This provides and increased regulation, which together resulted in opportunities for us in laboratory testing.
greater demand for testing and inspection services.
We expect the outlook for the chemical market to remain challenging as the decline in demand from Total adjusted operating profit increased to industrial users is likely to continue for some time.
33.5m, up 37.3% 25.5% at constant exchange Turnaround for this market depends on the recovery rates.
Organic adjusted operating profit increased of global economies especially in new housing and by 34.7% 23.0% at constant exchange rates.
Government initiatives to stimulate these adjusted operating margin improved by 110 basis sectors may have a positive impact.
We will continue points to 10.9%.
The improvement in margin was to seek new opportunities to gain market share mainly driven by the strong growth in inspection through superior service and innovative solutions.
and related testing of alternative bio fuels.
Change Change 2008 at actual at constant m rates rates Revenue 308.1 24.0% 14.5% Adjusted operating profit 33.5 37.3% 25.5% Adjusted operating margin 10.9% 110bp 100bp 28653 pp001-027.
indd 18 6 3 09 00:17:20 19 Annual Report 2008 19 Government Services What we do The Government Services division offers a range of services to governments, national standards organisations and customs departments.
Services include cargo scanning, fi scal support services and standards programmes.
Our performance in 2008 Performance in Government Services in 2008 was disappointing.
Revenue increased 3.5% at actual rates but declined 3.5% at constant exchange rates.
The decline at constant exchange rates was mainly due to the discontinuance of a pre-shipment inspection contract in Ecuador which was cancelled in 2007.
Operating profit increased 6.7% to 6.4m at actual rates but declined 8.7% at constant exchange rates.
All the contracts were profitable, however no significant new contracts were won during the year and the level of overhead cost was too high for the revenue base.
Following a strategic review in 2008, we concluded that the services offered by Government Services GS would be more efficiently provided from within the Oil, Chemical & Agri OCA division.
As a result we are making a significant reduction in the overhead and operating costs in Government Services, and integrating a number of GS and other divisional offices and systems into the OCA division to improve efficiency.
Government Services will not be reported as a separate division of Intertek in future.
Jay Gutierrez Division Executive Vice President Oil, Chemical & Agri and Government Services Change Change 2008 at actual at constant m rates rates Revenue 46.8 3.5% 3.5 % Adjusted operating profit 6.4 6.7% 8.7 % Adjusted operating margin 13.7% 40bp 80 bp 28653 pp001-027.
com Directors Report Business Review Operating Review laboratory and consultancy services related to the Analytical Services measurement and management of bacteria in the What we do upstream oil and gas industries.
Also in February, Analytical Services provides advanced laboratory the Group acquired Bioclin Research Laboratories Ltd, services and consultancy to a broad range of an Irish company which provides product quality industries including chemical, pharmaceutical, testing and bio-analytical services to pharmaceutical, oil and gas, and, automotive and aerospace.
medical device and bio-technology companies.
We have an established track record of success In March 2008, the Limburg Water Boards of in laboratory outsourcing with many large The Netherlands outsourced all laboratory activities internationally recognised companies.
and transferred the employees of Waterschapsbedrijf Our performance in 2008 Limburg to Intertek for a minimum period of five Total revenue in 2008 was 119.5m, up 24.9% years.
The Group will provide extended analytical 17.4% at constant exchange rates over the testing and consultancy services in the areas of prior year.
Organic revenue increased 9.0% environmental science, regulation and complex 2.4% at constant exchange rates.
Total adjusted analysis of silt, soil and water.
operating profit increased to 13.2m, up 12.8% Much of Interteks Upstream activities are related to 5.6% at constant exchange rates.
Organic the production and transportation of hydrocarbon adjusted operating profit declined by 15.0% reserves.
We anticipate that this business will be 21.3% at constant exchange rates.
Overall, the largely unaffected by the current economic climate division improved its adjusted operating margin in as production facilities will continue to generate the second half of the year although the full year volumes at normal levels.
However, if the oil price margin of 11.0% was 120 basis points down on remains depressed, some new development projects the prior year, due in part to reorganisation costs.
may be postponed or cancelled which could result in Results in Analytical Services were mixed, with increased competition for work in our subsurface some business segments performing very strongly exploration and production activities.
and others performing less well.
Upstream Services The chemical industry in the mature markets in reported strong growth in revenues in 2008 over the USA and Europe is suffering from a decline in 2007.
Downstream, Chemicals and Materials also demand for plastics, mainly from the automotive performed well, apart from lubricant testing in the and construction industries.
We expect this to have USA which suffered from lower volumes in 2008 a negative impact on our sample testing business ahead of new standards being issued in 2009. in The Netherlands as it is related to production Pharmaceutical testing grew well in the USA but volumes.
Other contracts which support research underperformed in the UK due to delays in a number and development and product innovation are of client projects.
Although the fundamental industry expected to be more resilient.
These market drivers for new pharmaceuticals remain strong, conditions provide a potential upside for Intertek we expect the market to remain challenging in as it is likely that companies will increasingly look 2009.
Our pharmaceutical business in the UK was to outsource their non-core activities.
Our strong reorganised at the end of 2008 to reduce costs.
track record of successfully running outsourcing contracts means that we are well placed to In February 2008, the Group acquired the UK based capitalise on this opportunity.
Commercial Microbiology Group which provides Andrew Swift Division Executive Vice President Analytical Services Change Change 2008 at actual at constant m rates rates Revenue 119.5 24.9% 17.4% Adjusted operating profit 13.2 12.8% 5.6% Adjusted operating margin 11.0% 120 bp 130 bp 28653 pp001-027.
com Directors Report Business Review Operating Review laboratory equipment including robotic and Minerals automated systems in Australia.
Over 60% of What we do revenue was generated in Australia, primarily from The Minerals division provides complete analytical the Genalysis business which we acquired in 2007. solutions to the worlds minerals, ore and mining industry.
The Minerals division extended its geographic footprint in 2008.
We acquired a company which Our network of laboratories and sample operates the largest commercial assay laboratory in preparation facilities offer key services such as the Philippines and offers geophysical surveys and analysis at the point of exploration and production inspection services to the minerals industries in Asia of gold, precious metals and iron ore, fire assay, and a company in Ghana which provides services and testing and analysis of coal and coke as well as to the gold mining industry.
These businesses were environmental monitoring.
We also provide marine acquired for 5.2m in total.
and inspection services of minerals shipments.
Activity in the mining and exploration industries Our performance in 2008 was high in the first nine months of the year but In 2008, total revenue was 39.2m, up 100.0% started to decline in the last quarter, when certain 83.2% at constant exchange rates over the prior commodity prices fell sharply and funding for year and organic revenue increased by 71.1% exploration projects was reduced.
Many junior 57.8% at constant exchange rates.
Total adjusted mining companies have ceased operations and operating profit increased to 4.9m, up 58.1% some major companies have scaled back their 48.5% at constant exchange rates.
This has reduced the volume of samples adjusted operating profit increased by 100.0% requiring testing.
Accordingly we have reduced 81.8% at constant exchange rates.
The adjusted headcount throughout our facilities and further operating margin was 12.5%, down 330 basis points cost reductions will be made if the market remains on the prior year due to investment in new projects.
We currently have a very small share of Until the last quarter of 2008, the Minerals division the available market in the minerals industry and benefited from the high price and strong demand therefore, even in a declining market we anticipate for commodities, particularly in China.
We established being able to grow revenues by gaining market new minerals laboratories in Townsville, Australia share from competitors.
and Johannesburg, South Africa and invested in Marc Hoffer Division Executive Vice President Minerals Change Change 2008 at actual at constant m rates rates Revenue 39.2 100% 83.2% Adjusted operating profit 4.9 58.1% 48.5% Adjusted operating margin 12.5% 330 bp 290 bp 28653 pp001-027.
