OPERATING REVIEW JUSTIN ATKINSON By continuing to focus on what we do best, we expect to maintain our track record of out-performing general construction markets over the medium to long term.
Justin Atkinson, Chief Executive 10 Keller Group plc Operating Review 2008 was another record year for the Principal risks and uncertainties synergies.
This is followed by a robust Group, in which we succeeded in The main areas of uncertainty facing the due diligence process, most of which is maintaining the momentum achieved Group relate to market conditions, undertaken by our own managers, and over the previous three years.
acquisitions, technical risk and people.
we then develop a clear integration plan These also represent the Groups greatest which takes account of the unique Conditions in our major markets opportunities and how we manage risks character of the target company.
In the US, non-residential construction is a key differentiator between Keller and KPI: return on net operating assets.
expenditure was some 12% higher than the similar businesses.
1 previous year, largely driven by high levels Technical risk Market cycles of public infrastructure spending and, within It is in the nature of our business that we Whilst our business will always be subject the private sector, strong investment in continually assess and manage technical, to economic cycles, market risk is reduced power and manufacturing.
The residential and other operational, risks.
The controls by the diversity of our markets, both in sector continued to contract, with housing we have in place, particularly at the crucial terms of geography and market segment.
starts for single-family homes virtually stage of bidding for contracts, is set out It is also partially offset by opportunities halving in the year and more than 75% in the Internal Control section of our for consolidation in our highly fragmented down on the 2005 peak.
Taken as a whole, Corporate Governance Report.
Typically, even where we are the US construction expenditure reduced in Groups relatively small average contract the year by around 5%.
clear leader, we still have a relatively small value less than 200,000, it is unlikely share of the market.
Our ability to exploit that any one contract is able to materially Conditions within our principal European these opportunities through bolt-on affect the results of the Group.
Our markets were mixed: demand in Poland acquisitions is reflected in our track record ability to manage technical risks will remained strong: Austria and Germany of growing sales, and doing so profitably, generally be reflected in our profitability.
held up well: whilst the UK, France, and, across market cycles.
KPI: our growth KPI: operating margin.
in particular, Spain experienced a more compared with the growth of our markets.
People Acquisitions The risk of losing, or not being able to Elsewhere, construction activity in the We recognise the risks associated with attract, good people is key.
We pride Middle East and Australia remained brisk for acquisitions and our approach to buying ourselves in having some of the best most of 2008, although the latter part of the businesses aims to manage these to professional and skilled people in the year showed that these regions were not acceptable levels.
First, we try to get to industry, who are motivated by our culture know a target company, often working in immune from the global recession, particularly and the opportunities for career growth.
joint venture, to understand the operational in respect of privately-funded projects.
The approach to training and developing and cultural differences and potential employees is discussed in our Social Responsibility Report.
1 The US Census Bureau of the Department of Commerce, 2 February 2009.
Keller Group plc 11 Operating Review
