Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Review of Operations 07 Our safety performance improved significantly in 2008, with a 42% improvement in our lost time injury frequency rate to 6.27, the lowest level in the history of the company.
Safety During the year, we continued to complete the Our safety performance improved significantly in implementation of our Laduma safety awareness 2008, with a 42% improvement in our lost time injury campaign, based on learning map technology, across frequency rate LTIFR to 6.27 per million man hours the business at Marikana.
This campaign uses football worked, the lowest level in the history of the to communicate and promote safe behaviours and Company.
It should be noted however that 3% of this procedures.
Initial indications are that the campaign improvement corresponds to an adjustment of manhas been well received and we will continue to raise hours in the Mining business, to include man-hours awareness and increase its visibility going forward.
from office personnel and some contractors which Mining were in error not previously included in calculations.
At the beginning of the financial year we introduced It is with regret that we report the death of three a new senior operational management team in the of our employees as a result of industrial accidents Mining division under the leadership of Chris during 2008.
Chris and his team were tasked with We continue to investigate rigorously incidents implementing and executing improvement through the Incident Cause Analysis Method and now programmes to increase productivity and consistency include near miss incidents.
Findings from these of performance.
These programmes are gaining incidents are critical to our efforts in eliminating traction and the key focus areas to date include the fatalities and serious injuries and are communicated strengthening of the operational management team, across our operations.
an increased focus on development, the upgrading of In order to ensure safety production at our management operating systems at shaft level, the operations, a large proportion of the safety completion of a new mining extraction strategy, an shutdowns at our operations during the year were improvement in our labour management programmes initiated by management as we continue our drive to and a new approach to mechanisation.
Zero Harm, in order to ensure safe production at our Our initial, mine-wide, Mining Extraction Strategy operations.
We remain supportive of the DMEs is now complete, including a review and analysis of renewed stance on safety in the mining industry, various key components of the Mining business, which has been evidenced by an increased number including depth, ore type, stoping technique and of inspections and ordered shaft closures related to processing and commercial requirements.
Completion these inspections across the industry during the year.
of the extraction strategy has played a significant part Visible leadership is crucial and is a powerful aid in our long term planning and, to this end, we in creating an interdependent safety culture.
All completed our long term planning protocol towards managers undertake safe behaviour observations and the end of the financial year.
We expect to complete participate with the employees in their areas in daily site-specific extraction strategies by the start of the safety breaks.
second half of the 2009 financial year.
com 08 Review of Operations continued Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc At our Mining business, we are making good progress 09 to embed best practice operational discipline into our operations and on increasing development to restore the technical health of the mines.
We have committed to completing a half-level Despite the year on year decline in production at optimisation project by the middle of 2010, where we are Marikana, we are seeing initial signs of improvement from already starting to see initial benefits.
Blue prints for all the operation and our underground operations will half-levels have been completed and we remain on track continue to grow in 2009. with this project.
Costs at our conventional operations at Marikana for We are also making progress in improving ore reserve the 2008 financial year were R390 per tonne, compared development at our shafts, evidenced by development to R430 per tonne at our opencast operations and R615 rates increasing 7.6% during the last quarter of the 2008 per tonne at our mechanised sections, hence the need financial year, compared with the previous quarter.
to address our mechanised shafts and our opencast However, improving development is not a quick fix and it operations.
Capital expenditure at our Marikana Mining will take another 18 months before we are achieving division was R1,459 million, the majority of which was acceptable levels of immediately available ore reserves, allocated to Hossy, Saffy and K4.
As at 30 September 2008, Limpopo immediately available ore reserves were 11.4 months.
Our Limpopo Baobab shaft produced 523,000 tonnes A key focus area in 2008 was labour management.
of ore in the year, a decline of 31% on 2007.
Production The Mining team introduced a Zero Tolerance approach continued to be constrained by a shortage of available to absenteeism, which was extensively communicated ore caused by an Iron-Rich Ultramafic Pegmatoid throughout the business, and focused on increasing occurrence and a lack of ore reserve development.
awareness that persistent absenteeism would result in Limpopo produced 22,017 saleable ounces of Platinum dismissal.
To combat the shortage of skilled workers, in concentrate for the year, a decline of 38% on 2007 we implemented recruitment programmes to attract and due to the lower throughput from the mine and a six retain the necessary skills and we were successful in week shutdown of the Limpopo concentrator in 2008 reducing skilled labour turnover during the year.
Costs for the year at Limpopo Marikana Mining were R622 per tonne and capital expenditure Our Marikana operations mined 11.5 million tonnes of was R217 million.
ore, a 10% decrease on the same period in 2007 with Our Limpopo Baobab shaft operations have always underground operations contributing 10.2 million tonnes.
In recent years the mine has not As previously reported, underground production was delivered and this situation cannot continue.
We believe principally impacted by safety related stoppages, the the mine is uneconomic and intend to start discussions Eskom four day power outage in January, available face with the workforce and unions regarding the future of length constraints, which we are addressing through our the operation.
focus on accelerating ore reserve development, and high Pandora levels of absenteeism particularly in the first half of the Our share of mined production from the Pandora Joint financial year.
Venture ground during the year was 400,000 tonnes As planned, opencast tonnages were down year on mined, a decline of 3% from 2007.
Our underground year with total tonnes mined in 2008 of 1.3 million tonnes operations at Pandora produced 124,000 tonnes, a 3% versus 1.6 million tonnes in 2007.
Given the relatively high decline from 2007, and our opencast Pandora operations cost of production from opencast operations, as well as produced 275,000 tonnes, a 4% decline from 2007. the low grade of opencast ore and its dilutive effect on Lonmin purchases 100% of the ore from the Pandora concentrator recoveries, we decided to suspend production Joint Venture and this ore contributed 48,743 saleable from this part of the business with effect from the end of ounces of Platinum in concentrate and 87,871 saleable the 2008 calendar year.
ounces of total PGMs in concentrate to our production.
Another key factor impacting production was the The Pandora Joint Venture contributed $18.0 million slower than anticipated ramp up of our mechanised shafts of profit after tax for our account in the financial year, with our mechanised operations producing 1.2 million up 50% from the 2007 financial year.
tonnes in the year, significantly behind our plans, but a substantial increase on the 0.6 million tonnes produced by these shafts in the prior year.
The change in our approach to mechanisation will have some impact on production in the 2009 financial year, given the logistical complexities, including transferring crews and equipment between shafts, re-organising scheduling and planning and re-training managers and their teams.
The transition to hybrid mining at Saffy is expected to be completed by the end of the 2009 financial year.
com 10 Review of Operations continued Process Division We have scheduled a rebuild of the Number One Process Division management continued to implement furnace in November 2008.
The furnace will be offline a number of initiatives which have started to improve until early January 2009 as we complete a redesign of efficiencies and recoveries across the value chain.
During the rebuild we will install graphite tiles Smelter, a number of programmes were implemented for the upper waffle coolers, a third matte tappe hole to at the Number One furnace to improve process stability increase tappe hole life, a redesigned refractory below and recoveries.
These include the implementation of a the waffle coolers and split waffle coolers for external blending strategy to ensure standardised feed to the removal.
The redesign will allow for hot repairs of the furnace, manage temperature fluctuations and predict furnace tappe holes, with quicker repairs of the copper slag chemistry.
We also have a number of programmes in coolers.
As a result, we expect to be able to increase the place to improve concentrator recoveries, including better availability and reliability of the furnace, so that it can management and scheduling of planned maintenance, operate on a more continuous basis, with fewer planned as well as the establishment of improved control systems, maintenance shut downs.
During the Number One which will allow us to better match particular ore types to furnace downtime we will be running our Merensky certain concentrators.
furnace and the Pyromet furnaces to ensure the impact Costs for the year in the Process Division were is mitigated.
This rebuild will however have an impact on R1,447 per PGM ounce and capital expenditure was our production during the first half of the 2009 financial R308 million.
year, and particularly in the first quarter of the year.
Accordingly, as in 2008, production during the 2009 Concentrators financial year is expected to be weighted towards the The Concentrators produced a total of 732,125 saleable second half.
ounces of Platinum in concentrate for the year down 16% on 2007 reflecting the lower levels of throughput from the Refineries mines and lower opencast grades.
The improvement Lonmin refined production was 699,942 ounces of programmes we have introduced in the Concentrators Platinum, up from 695,842 ounces of Platinum in 2007. during the year showed encouraging results with overall We are completing an upgrade of the Base Metal recoveries improving to 79.2% from 77.3% in 2007 and Refinery to increase throughput to 37 tonnes per day and underground recoveries up to 81.7% versus 80.7% last we have completed various fide-bottlenecking projects, as year.
well as upgrading the nickel sulphate crystallisers at the Underground milled head grade was 4.66 grammes plant.
Final sales for the year were 726,918 ounces of per tonne 5PGE Au, 4.5% lower than the prior year Platinum and 1,401,371 ounces of total PGMs, in line partly as a result of ore mix issues including the increased with our revised guidance.
percentage of lower grade development ore from the Reserves and Resources Marikana mechanised shafts.
During the year, Lonmins entire Mineral Resource and Reserve has been thoroughly reviewed and certain areas Smelter At the Smelter, we brought forward the planned have been re-estimated where appropriate.
The major changes are as follows: inspection and repair of the Number One furnace to coincide with the Eskom power outage at the end of Extensive remodelling of the Marikana Resource has been completed using methodology that allows January.
We successfully completed the work on the furnace and it returned to full operations on 2 March greater sophistication in accounting for the PGE grade variations across the property.
In June, the Number One furnace was powered down for seven days due to a leak in one of the copper has confirmed the robustness of the UG2 Mineral Resource estimates and revealed no significant cooling waffles on the side of the furnace, as a result of a manufacturing fault.
In July, the Merensky furnace was changes in the UG2 PGE grade overall.
The remodelling of the Merensky Resource has resulted in shut down for around two months for repair, following a matte run out through one of the tappe holes.
These a lower overall Merensky Reef PGE grade, particularly in the known lower grade and thicker eastern areas were relatively minor incidents and the Smelter performed well during the year, with Number One furnace availability of Marikana.
It is worth noting that Lonmin does not increasing to 86% in the 2008 financial year, from 61% currently mine Merensky Reef from these lower grade in 2007. eastern areas but the impact has been to lower the average grade of the overall Merensky Mineral Resource.
The overall Merensky Reef Mineral Reserve grade is less affected.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc As announced at the Interim Results on 8 May 2008, pending information from closer spaced drilling: and 11 a review of the P2 and P1 reef type extents at Akanani b changes made during the year to the Life of Mine resulted in a marked increase in the Indicated Plan taking account of a number of factors including Resource and PGE grade in the main mineralised the need for an additional ventilation shaft and zone the P2.
Additional drilling allowed Lonmin to refrigeration below 750 metres.
The Mineral Reserves upgrade a portion of the P2 Inferred Resource to in the relatively shallow Limpopo Phase 2 Project are Indicated Resource whilst other areas of lower grade unchanged since 2007. or less certain continuity have been removed from the classification.
The exclusion of large volumes of low Consistent with 2007 reporting, the 2008 Lonmin grade P1 mineralisation from the Mineral Resource Mineral Resources and Reserves include Lonmins resulted in a significant increase in overall project attributable portion only.
The percentage of each of the grade and a reduction in overall metal content.
areas attributable to Lonmin has not changed during the year.
At Limpopo Baobab shaft, the Probable Mineral Full details of Lonmins Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserve has reduced as a result of a a more Reserves are included on our website www.
b Limpopo: includes Dwaalkop Joint Venture, in which Western Platinum Limited 82% owned by Lonmin has an interest of 50%, but excludes Baobab shaft.
c Pandora Joint Venture: Eastern Platinum Limited 82% owned by Lonmin has an attributable interest of 42.5% in the Pandora Joint Venture together with Anglo Platinum, Mvelaphanda Resources and the Bapo Ba Mogale Mining Company.
d Loskop Joint Venture: Western Platinum Limited 82% owned by Lonmin has an attributable interest of 50% in the Loskop Joint Venture with Boynton Investments.
e Incwala Resources owns 18% of both Western Platinum Limited and Eastern Platinum Limited and 26% of Akanani.
f All quoted Resources and Reserves includes Lonmins attributable portion only and the following percentages were applied to the total Mineral Resource and Reserve for each property: Limpopo Limpopo Doornvlei, Area Marikana Dwaalkop JV Zebedelia, Baobab Akanani Pandora Loskop Lonmin Attributable 82% 41% 82% 74% 34.85% 41% g All figures are reported as metric tonnes millions, grammes per tonne, percent or troy ounces millions.
h Where Nickel Ni and Copper Cu grade estimates for the various Mineral Resources are considered compliant with SAMREC 2007 guidelines, they are included in the Mineral Resource statements for the individual areas.
These grades are reported in percent and represent acid soluble proportions.
i All tabulated data have been rounded to one decimal place for tonnage and content and two decimal places for grades.
j Mineral Resources are inclusive of Mineral Reserves.
k Mineral Resources are reported as in situ tonnes and grade and allow for geological losses such as faults, dykes, potholes and Iron Rich Ultramafic Pegmatite IRUP.
l Proved and Probable Mineral Reserves are reported as tonnes and grade expected to be delivered to the mill, are inclusive of diluting materials and allow for losses that may occur when the material is mined.
m Mine tailings dams are excluded from the above Mineral Resource summary.
n For economic studies and the determination of pay limits, consideration was made of both short and long term revenue drivers.
The following long term assumptions were used: Pt $1500, Pd $500, Rh $3,000, Ru $450, Ir $410, Au $550 per ounce and Ni $15,400, Cu $2,860 per tonne, using an average exchange rate of $1 to R8.
o Dilutions are quoted as waste tonnes waste ore tonnes in percent.
p Unless otherwise stated, the Lonmin Mineral Resources and Reserves estimates were prepared or supervised by various persons employed by Lonmin.
