BUSINESS REVIEW Chairmans statement Meggitts response to challenging circumstances has been swift and decisive.
We have signi cantly accelerated our Transformation programme.
These changes will enable Meggitt to respond to our customers requirements much more effectively and at the same time to reduce our costs.
It was a challenging year for our intellectual property and programme Peter Hill will be stepping down from the industry.
This investment included Board on 31 March 2010 after six years.
remained generally healthy, civil a major expansion of our high pressure It has been a pleasure and privilege markets were hard hit.
Deliveries of new testing facilities in California.
working with Peter and I would like aircraft, except very large jets, declined to take this opportunity to thank him In response to the requirements of signi cantly and air traf c, which drives for his support and contribution to the customers global sourcing strategies, our spares business, contracted by development of the group.
Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems nearly 5%.
Revenues were affected MABS completed its facility in further by customers cancelling orders Outlook Quertaro, Mexico.
Meggitts Chinese and reducing their inventories.
operation in Xiamen opened a third The outlook for our civil markets Revenues declined by 1% to 1,150.5 facility, adding polymers and composites remains mixed.
Civil OE production is million and underlying pro t before tax to its control valve and sensor lines.
expected to decline, modestly for large was down 4% to 234.2 million.
That jets and by larger amounts for regional In 2008 Meggitt became the first said, we generated record net cash of and business jets.
Air traf c growth company to y an all-electric braking 126.0 million, up 68% on the previous is expected to become positive in 2010 system with no hydraulic back-up on year, whilst increasing investment in and the utilisation of business jets to a commercial demonstrator aircraft.
The order book at 31 December increase.
This combined with an end A contract from Bombardier for the 2009 closed at over 700 million.
As a to destocking should return our civil CSeries aircraft followed in 2009. result of this performance, the Board aftermarket to growth in the second half is proposing to maintain the final Meggitts aerospace equipment and of 2010.
We expect our military business dividend at 5.75 pence taking the full sensing systems divisions collaborated to continue to grow and our energy and year payment to 8.45 pence, again in successfully, extending the reach of the specialist markets to remain broadly at.
line with 2008. groups condition-monitoring capability Meggitt has already taken signi cant with the launch of a new tyre pressure Meggitts response to these challenging action to cut costs, achieving savings monitoring system that responds to the circumstances has been swift and of 34 million in 2009.
We expect this to aviation industrys requirement for more decisive.
We have signi cantly increase to an annual run rate of at least performance data.
accelerated our Transformation 50 million by the end of 2010.
Cash programme, through which Meggitt Airbus accredited our new lightweight conversion and the balance sheet should is evolving from a set of strategicallypolymer for airframe seals.
managed independent businesses into a weight savings of up to 20%, this could As a consequence, based on current much more integrated and streamlined amount to savings of up to half a tonne market indicators, and at constant group.
These changes will enable of elastomer on a large jet.
exchange rates the group expects a Meggitt to improve customer service relatively at first half outcome and and reduce our costs at the same Extreme performance to return to growth in the second half time.
Complemented by our ongoing Meggitts performance in a dif cult of 2010. operational improvement programme, 2009 was excellent.
We met financial transformation enabled us to deliver targets and pursued transformation another healthy set of financial results.
As always, we could not have achieved this without Investment continues the dedication and hard work of our Despite the dif cult economic employees.
May I take this opportunity environment, Meggitt continues to look to extend my thanks to them all for to the long term future of the business, another outstanding year.
Sir Colin Terry investing 115.5 million in facilities, Chairman 04 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
