Chairmans statement Headline profit before tax 118.6m Headline basic EPS 16.6p Total 2009 dividend 7.7p I am pleased to report Melroses seventh set of annual results Our first full year of ownership since flotation in 2003. of FKI has exceeded our Results for the Group These accounts report the results for the Group for the year expectations.
The quality of to 31 December 2009 and comparatives for the previous year.
FKI plc was acquired on 1 July 2008 and these accounts include its major businesses has been its first full year contribution.
demonstrated in their resilience Revenue for the year was 1,298.5 million 2008: 895.3 million.
Headline profit before tax before exceptional costs, exceptional during the severe downturn income and intangible asset amortisation was 118.6 million 2008: 73.1 million and headline basic earnings per share were in 2009.
Profit before tax was 82.0 million 2008: 23.5 million and the basic earnings per share were 11.0p 2008: 4.1p.
Further explanation of these results is provided in the Finance Directors review.
FKI plc Our first full year of ownership of FKI has exceeded our expectations.
The quality of its major businesses has been demonstrated in their resilience during the severe downturn in 2009.
Changes in management and strategies as well as targeted capital expenditure have reaped early rewards.
The geographic and sector spread of these businesses when added to their inherent strengths gives us confidence that there is more to come over the next few years.
At the same time continued focus by our management teams on permanent cash generation has produced excellent results.
06 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information 2009 was an extraordinarily difficult year.
The severe downturn Outlook which started in autumn 2008 was the starting point for substantial Across the Group, sales are now beginning to increase and order cost reductions in nearly all our businesses across the world.
For the moment it appears recovery which has Our management teams are to be congratulated on their speed been noticeable for several months in the East, may be on the way of reaction and the accuracy of their targeting.
The result can be to the West although caution must be the watchword until this seen in improved Group profit margins, even in the face of lower becomes established.
Government debt reduction programmes sales.
Employees too must be thanked for their willingness to which need to be carried out in many countries have not yet been embrace sometimes painful change brought on by economic implemented and it is very difficult to prejudge the timing and the circumstances.
Operational cash generation, always a focus for Melrose, has again In the mean time we are confident of the short and long-term been exceptionally strong.
At the Group level, after all items including prospects of our businesses and satisfied that the actions we exchange movements and disposals, net debt has been reduced have taken in the downturn have left them very well placed for by 221 million to 322 million, an extremely satisfying performance.
Capital expenditure, held back in 2009 in the face of the uncertain outlook, will rise again in 2010.
It is also likely that the initial strong improvement in FKIs net working capital levels will now stabilise as an appropriate level is reached.
These two factors will mean that 2010 is more normalised for cash generation although we still Christopher Miller fully expect a strong performance at the operating level.
10 March 2010 A more detailed review of Melroses businesses and financial position is contained in the reviews of the Chief Executive and Finance Director on the following pages.
Dividends The Board intends to pay a second interim dividend of 4.8p per share 2008: final dividend of 4.25p on 1 April 2010 to shareholders on the register on 19 March 2010 in lieu of a final dividend.
This gives a total for the year of 7.7p 2008: 7.0p, an increase of 10% reflecting the Boards confidence in the future.
Strategy Melroses strategy is by now well understood.
We continue to look for businesses where our combination of increased management focus and strong but selective investment is likely to produce above average returns for investors.
This strategy will include the sale of these businesses at the appropriate time, normally in a three to five year period, with proceeds being returned to shareholders in the most efficient way possible.
We continue to believe that market and economic conditions favour acquisitions over disposals at present and so we continue to look for the right opportunity.
Fortunately, the strong growth potential of our existing businesses over the next few years gives us the ability to be patient and we will exercise our customary caution in our selection process.
