Chairmans statement Kevin Loosemore Chairman Micro Focus Annual Report and 10 International plc Accounts 2009 Growth Strategy Resilient Delivering Effective Business Shareholder Cost Model Value Management Compelling Customer Proposition WHAT WE DO TO DELIVER SHAREHOLDER VALUE Micro Focus has delivered another year of strong financial results, Since the year end we have completed the acquisition of the Testing achieving signi cant organic revenue growth and improving pro t and Automated Software Quality ASQ business of Compuware margins, in spite of tough economic conditions.
We successfully for a gross consideration of $80 million.
In addition, we have integrated NetManage, Liant and Relativity, companies acquired announced the acquisition of Borland Software Corporation for in June 2008, July 2008 and December 2008 respectively.
a gross consideration of approximately $113 million.
To fund our acquisition and integration plans we have put in place a three-year While we remain conscious of the current challenging economic revolving credit facility of $215 million provided through a syndicated conditions, our long-term ambition remains to achieve signi cant loan consortium comprising Barclays, HSBC, Lloyds and RBS.
growth in revenue and pro ts through both organic and acquired means.
As we build our Company to address new growth opportunities, we have added a signi cant number of employees to the business and The performance achieved over the past year continues to re ect I am pleased with their rapid integration, and the strong contribution well on the entire Micro Focus team and highlights the strong they are making.
The board would like to thank all of our employees fundamentals of the business.
We have first rate technology for their continued hard work and commitment throughout the year.
solutions, a loyal customer base and a leading position in a We continue to build for the future.
substantial, sustainable and growing marketplace.
Market conditions for all companies are challenging but our revenue We remain focused on pro table revenue growth and I am con dent and EBITDA margin growth underlines the relevance of our in the Companys ability to continue to deliver value to all of its customer proposition and the resilience of our business model.
Through both dividend and capital growth we aim to deliver superior total shareholder returns.
The board continues to adopt a progressive dividend policy re ecting the long-term earnings and cash ow potential of Micro Focus and We look forward to the year ahead with con dence.
I am pleased to announce a proposed final dividend of 11.1 cents per share, giving a full year dividend of 15.6 cents per share.
This represents a 20% increase when compared to a full year dividend of 13.0 cents last year and re ects the boards con dence in both the relevance of our solutions and the prospects of Micro Focus.
We nished the year with cash of $71.6 million, and generated Kevin Loosemore $105.0 million of cash from continuing operations during the year.
Chairman Our business model has low ongoing capital requirements and delivers strong cash generation.
During the year, $78.6 million of cash was used to fund the acquisitions and restructuring of NetManage, Liant and Relativity.
This gure comprises the purchase cost of $92.1 million, restructuring costs incurred of $14.9 million less cash acquired of $28.4 million.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 11 International plc Accounts 2009
