Business Review Chairmans Statement We are a very cash generative business, but will run with a conservative debt free balance sheet to enable us to take advantage of the opportunities as our business and the economy recovers Gerald Corbett Chairman Our third year as a public company significantly enhanced during the 53.8m.
With the business stabilised, was one of great change.
The year and our advertising programme and with the tax changes announced impact of the credit crunch on our changed, initially with Peter Jones in the April 2009 Budget, we have business, especially our Money and then the new programme which decided to recommend another vertical, was significant.
Across the commenced in January this year special dividend of 25m or 4.91p whole of the United Kingdom, there with Omid Djalili.
We retained our per ordinary share.
This brings the was a collapse in mortgage and leading market position in the total dividend for the year to 13.34p secured lending as the banks Money vertical, maintaining market per ordinary share including the total contracted their loan books.
share, in spite of revenues, of the special dividends of 9.84p per particularly from mortgage and ordinary share.
If approved by Against this economic backdrop, the secured lending, falling by 44%.
shareholders at the forthcoming Groups revenue declined by 23% Annual General Meeting, this will be from 178.8m to 136.9m for the We lost some market share in the paid on 1 April 2010 to all year ending 31 December 2009 and first quarter in our Insurance shareholders on the register as at adjusted EBITDA declined by 26% to vertical, when some of our site 5 March 2010.
enhancements failed to generate the improvements expected, but We are a very cash generative However, some positives for the held share in the rest of the year.
business, but will run with a Group emerged from the crisis.
It conservative debt free balance accelerated our transition to a Our travel website suffered in line sheet to enable us to take advantage professional management team: it with the rest of the market and of the opportunities as our business prompted a significant reduction in consequently was managed for and the economy recovers.
the cost base: it precipitated a margin.
Our Home Services vertical review and rethink of everything performed satisfactorily given the The new year has begun that we do: and it demonstrated the greater stability in gas and satisfactorily and we are quietly resilience of our diversified business electricity prices in 2009.
We confident that the worst is behind model with yet another year of solid believe there is good potential to us.
It has been a difficult time for the cash flow.
switch customers from these to our Company.
Our employees have other verticals.
responded magnificently to the Peter Plumb was appointed Chief challenges they have faced and, on Executive Officer in February 2009.
Following a review of the Groups behalf of the Board, I would like to Graham Donoghue and David cash requirements in July 2009, the thank them for their commitment Osborne were appointed as Company paid an interim dividend during the year.
Directors at the same time.
All are of 1.3p per ordinary share on 16 experienced professional managers.
October 2009, consistent with the The Annual General Meeting will be interim dividend in 2008.
In addition, held at 10.30am on Wednesday 31 The new management team have the Company paid a special March 2010 at fide Vere Carden Park settled in well.
The drop in profitability dividend on the same date of 4.93p Hotel, near Chester, Cheshire, CH3 was minimised, the business was per ordinary share reflecting the 9DQ and I look forward to seeing stabilised, improvements were made Boards confidence in the ability of you there.
and by the final quarter our year on the business to generate cash on an year profitability was ahead of the ongoing basis.
We came through the worst recession since the 1930s solidly During the year, the business Gerald Corbett profitable, leaner and better managed.
continued to generate cash, and we Chairman Each of our verticals were ended the year with cash balances of 8 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009
