30 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Chairmans statement Overview In my Chairmans statement last year I commented that I believed that the Groups strategy of reducing its exposure to economically cyclical, more commoditised markets would stand us in good stead to weather the very difficult economic circumstances that we expected to lie ahead in 2009.
The past year has confirmed this view and Morgan Crucible has shown real resilience in its performance during the most severe downturn in global industrial production that we have seen in most of our lifetimes.
The changes to the Groups portfolio in recent years, with the disposal of under-performing and cyclical businesses Tim Stevenson combined with the acquisition of higher margin, more differentiated businesses, Chairman have delivered significant improvements in Morgan Crucibles through-cycle margins.
Specifically, at the beginning of 2009 Morgan Crucible has we acquired a further 11% stake in NP Aerospace, taking the Groups equity shown real resilience in its holding to 60% and enabling us to consolidate NP Aerospace in Morgan Crucibles financial results.
The remaining performance during the 40% stake will be acquired in annual tranches of 10% from 2010 to 2013. most severe downturn in NP Aerospaces strong business in ballistic armour protection delivered an excellent global industrial production performance at a time when general industrial markets were significantly depressed.
As we look to the future, the that we have seen in most goal for your Board is to leverage Morgan Crucibles extensive global footprint to of our lifetimes.
develop opportunities for NP Aerospace beyond its traditional position as a predominantly UK-focused business.
Both NP Aerospace and the technical ceramics businesses acquired in 2008 from the Carpenter Technology Corporation have delivered operating profit margins well 31 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Outlook into double digits in a particularly Dividend per share As we look forward, we remain cautious Pence difficult macroeconomic environment.
on the outlook for the world economy This, combined with a robust performance 2009 7.0 which we believe still faces a number of from the existing businesses, has helped 2008 7.0 the Group deliver overall operating profit challenges and uncertainties as various 2007 6.75 margins before restructuring and one-off national stimulus packages are withdrawn.
However, encouragingly, in the latter 2005 2.5 parts of 2009 we did begin to see I am pleased with the results delivered signs of modest demand recovery in by Morgan Crucible in such a challenging our business, particularly in the Chinese market environment.
Group revenues and Indian markets.
for the year were 942.6 million compared Regardless of whether the economic to 835.0 million in 2008.
Operating profit outlook remains depressed or does before restructuring and one-off items was indeed begin to show recovery in 2010, 89.0 million compared to 108.8 million in I am confident that Morgan Crucible is a 2008, and underlying diluted earnings per more resilient, higher quality business that share was 12.6 pence 2008: 22.8 pence.
is well equipped to thrive and prosper in From a balance sheet perspective, a strong the future.
and consistent focus on cash generation during the year resulted in net debt being It has been, undeniably, a difficult market reduced from a 290.4 million opening year environment in 2009.
That the Group has position to 252.7 million by the year end.
prospered during this period and that it is Dividend so well positioned for the future is due, of The Groups resilient profit performance course, to the hard work and commitment and solid cash generation mean that of all our employees around the world.
the Board is confident to recommend The Board is grateful as always for all that maintaining a final dividend of 4.5 pence they have achieved.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 7.0 pence.
Board Tim Stevenson Given the extreme volatility of the market Chairman environment, your Board remained very close to the operational performance of the business during 2009.
A significant amount of our time was focused on ensuring that the right mitigating actions were taken quickly and decisively in the face of the global industrial downturn to ensure that the cost base remained as closely aligned to revenue demand as possible.
This close operational cost base focus was a key factor in delivering the robust profits and margins that were achieved in 2009.
