Chairmans statement Dear Fellow Investor UK.
We have invested in our internet business Ian R Peacock Chairman such that now our internet sales exceed Last years chairmans statement dealt 100 million and represent 18.5 per cent principally with the progress our Company of UK sales: a strong business in its own right.
has made since 2002, a period during which There is clearly scope for us to roll out our we have turned the business around and Direct business internationally and we are set it firmly on the path to growth.
This year looking at those options for 2009 10.
We also I want to look forward and concentrate on have a joint venture in Gurgle.
com, the social our aspirations for the future.
networking site that is growing fast.
Its 91,000 Mothercare and increasingly Early Learning or so registered users are based mainly Centre ELC are becoming established in the UK and we also have a significant as genuinely global brands.
We are now number of users in India and the USA.
represented in over 50 countries and there As shopping habits change, so will the are more than 600 Mothercare and ELC structure and look of our UK store estate.
stores outside the UK, well above the We have already put ELC inserts into 84 number in the UK.
The scope for expansion of our out of town stores: reduced the size remains substantial.
We have over 40 stores of three of our largest stores to make them in Greece and over 50 in Saudi Arabia, more profitable and consolidated 25 both medium sized countries in terms of Mothercare and ELC sites into two for one population where we have strong, long stores, closing 38 in town stores.
As a result standing franchisee relationships.
In time, occupancy costs have reduced by 10.4 per many other countries should be capable of cent from last year.
We have a large number supporting similar numbers of Mothercare of leases terminating over the next few Mothercare and, and ELC stores.
Even before we opened years which will enable us to further realign in India, the Mothercare name was widely increasingly, our UK property estate and to design stores recognised by a large section of the Indian which will delight our future customers.
Early Learning Centre population, both from travel in the Gulf region as well as family and friends in the UK.
We are aware of the risks associated with are becoming If we replicate our success in our established running our business during these challenging established as markets elsewhere and currently we see no economic times and we are pleased that bar to our doing so our international sales, we have been able to generate operational genuinely global and the value of our international business, cash flow and remain debt free, despite brands.
will eventually dwarf those in the UK.
Our aim over the coming years is to exploit further the huge So far we have grown in the UK by owning potential of the Mothercare and ELC brands, our business and overseas by franchising to particularly internationally and to continue local organisations who know their markets.
to do so in a controlled way.
Our entry this year into China represented a break with this pattern and we are pleased We were pleased to welcome Richard Rivers with the result.
We have chosen to invest to the board during the year.
Richard brings alongside our partner, Goodbaby, thereby a wealth of experience from his career in Unilever benefiting from more of the value added and has established himself as a valued from a successful operation whilst still being colleague.
The board and I should also like to able to rely on our partners local knowledge.
thank Ben, his management team and all our We envisage that we may engage in more staff for their support, dedication and hard work joint ventures in future, though we will remain during what has been another successful year.
mindful of political, cultural and economic risks which attend international investment.
The UK is a mature market for us and our progress here is likely to concentrate on doing things better rather than doing a great deal more.
Within this approach we believe that Ian R Peacock there are exciting opportunities for us in the 5 Chairman Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview
