Overview We believe that we will continue to benefit Chairmans Statement from sustained public expenditure in our markets and from our strong focus on the provision of essential services and maintenance of vital infrastructure.
There is no reason why we should not see the challenges of the last year as a one-off occurrence for Mouchel: and a pause for breath.
We therefore remain confident about our future prospects.
This has been a difficult year for Mouchel: the most challenging since our flotation on the London Stock Market in 2002.
Some of these challenges have been caused by the conditions in the markets in which we operate: and some have been particular to Mouchel.
The impact has been that in June we guided the market to expect profits around 15% lower than we had originally expected: and in these year-end accounts we have reported exceptional costs of 53.6m associated with restructuring some businesses in the Group 7.4m of this is the amortisation of intangible assets arising from business combinations and 17.1m is the write-off of goodwill and intangible assets as a result of our decision to substantially exit the rail sector.
This has obviously been very disappointing for everyone associated with Mouchel.
But its important to keep this disappointment in perspective.
Bo Lerenius Chairman In the year to 31 July 2009, Group revenue grew by 13% to 740.6m.
Underlying operating profit also grew by 13% to 47.3m.
Operating margins were unchanged at 6.4% although we still aspire to margins of 8% for the Group as a whole in the medium-term.
Adjusted earnings per share were 26.4p, an increase of 3% on the previous year.
And we will pay a dividend for the year of 6.10p: maintaining the same level as the prior year.
Our Highways business became the number one player in its market.
Mouchel retained its position as one of the Sunday Times Top 20 Best Big Companies to Work For in the UK.
In August 2009, we entered the new financial year with an order book of 1.9bn and a pipeline of bidding opportunities of 2.2bn.
At Mouchel our standards are very high, largely as a result of our past performance and the success that we have achieved: year-on-year growth in revenue, underlying operating profits and earnings per share all average more than 20% per annum in the seven years since flotation.
Our performance last year was influenced by our withdrawal from the rail sector and by the impact of the economic downturn in our Middle East and Management Consulting businesses.
These issues clouded what was otherwise another year of growth and strong performance in our core business.
What investors, clients and staff need to know is that we have taken steps to address these issues, making us better placed to face the challenges ahead.
Chairmans Statement 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 03 Mouchel Group plc Overview The speed of the downturn meant that we did not reduce staff Chairmans Statement costs and overheads quickly enough to match the lower levels continued of demand and this impacted profits.
We were, however, able to complete the right-sizing of the business in the spring.
At the same time we appointed a new management team to take the business forward and took the opportunity to revise the business model and reduce overheads.
It is still early days and we know there are further challenges ahead, not least because of the hiatus that a general election will create for this division.
But we have started the new financial year well and are optimistic that we will be able to meet or beat the more cautious budget set for this particular business stream in 2009 10: and provide a stepping stone to improving further in 2010 11.
In Rail, our efforts to achieve a more significant position in Network Rails supply chain by moving in 2005 into maintenance contracting and signalling installation has not been successful.
We have not secured the volume of work that we expected: and the work we have secured has not been as successful as we would have liked.
Investors have been aware of this for some time.
But then in April 2009 we were unsuccessful in the retender of our long-term structural examination and assessment contracts with Network Rail.
As a result we have now substantially exited the rail sector.
Finally, our win-rate, so successful throughout the period since flotation, had, for the first time, slipped outside our target range of one-in-three to two-in-five of all tenders by value, during the second half of 2007 08 and the first half of 2008 09.
This meant that turnover has not grown organically as fast as in previous periods.
We have examined the reasons behind this performance The challenges we have faced and taken a number of steps to improve the situation.
Encouragingly, Local authorities, responsible for around two-thirds of our revenue, we restored the win-rate to within the target range during the are probably one of the last sectors of the economy to enter second half of the year and the signs are that we will be able to recession: the latest three-year settlement with central government maintain this improved performance into 2009 10 and beyond.
means that much of their funding is almost certainly secure until March 2011.
However, these authorities have already faced falling The opportunities ahead developer contributions, reduced parking revenues, lower receipts So, as is often the case, these challenges also bring opportunities.
from business rates and the burden of extra benefit payments.
While we expect less buoyant market conditions to persist for Many have already reined back expenditure accordingly, and many some time, it is important to remember that Mouchel is positioned are facing up to a future where there will be less money to spend defensively, with over 93% of our contracted revenue being derived but further demands for yet more efficient delivery of better quality from long-term contracts with the UK public sector and public services.
The response of many authorities, particularly second-tier service industries.
Furthermore, almost everything we do is councils, is to look to shared services, job sharing and partnership connected with sustaining vital infrastructure and maintaining as a way of meeting these requirements, rather than cutting essential services.
This work will continue, whether it is managing front-line services.
These trends represent significant opportunity the maintenance of motorways and schools or collecting council tax for Mouchel.
and administering payroll: and much of our work is driven by safety, by legislation and by the need to preserve the environment.
A key impact on our in-year performance has been the sudden collapse of the property market in Dubai towards the end of 2008.
We are confident that the continued pursuit of a strategy that In the early part of this decade we pulled out of almost all of our is focused on outsourcing and on the provision of long-term legacy overseas activities, the significant exception being the Middle managed services to the UK public sector is the right way forward East.
In 2003, we employed less than 50 staff in Dubai and Abu for Mouchel.
The next Government will address the debt burden Dhabi: by the autumn of 2008 this number had grown to nearly through a range of measures that will include spending less, 800, fuelled by the rapid pace of development, largely in Dubai.
This disposing of assets, raising taxes and improving efficiency.
Spending boom ended abruptly in November last year and we were forced to less means that many capital schemes and grants will cease or lay-off over half of our staff in the region as projects were cancelled move to the right we do not expect to be affected significantly or put on hold.
We were left with significant debts and over the last by this.
Asset disposals present opportunity for the private sector, nine to 10 months we have been negotiating a settlement with our particularly those companies who have relevant experience and key clients in Dubai, the anticipated outcome of which is reflected market presence.
Raising taxes will hit individuals and businesses, in the accounts for the year ended 31 July 2009, having taken an but we dont expect that this will otherwise adversely impact our impairment charge of 15.0m against contract receivables.
day-to-day activities: indeed it could possibly be favourable to Mouchel as all arms of government examine the scope for top-up Some departments of central government have been the target for arrangements or systems of co-payment.
Improving efficiency the so-called fiscal stimulus.
We have benefited in the year from is not new: but it will surely gather pace.
This will manifest itself some of this additional expenditure, most notably in Highways.
But in many ways: shared services, cost reduction and above all, central government procurement of consulting services has slowed service transformation.
markedly and this started to affect our Management Consulting business at the end of 2008.
This business lacks the visibility of other parts of the Group and is extremely sensitive to top-line fluctuations.
Chairmans Statement 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 04 Mouchel Group plc Overview It is the latter that excites us most, as local authorities look to modernise, rationalise and spend less, seeking to deliver more 5,000 efficiently even better quality services to citizens and communities.
Our acquisition of HBS, the Business Process Outsourcing public buildings and BPO specialists, in August 2007, was followed by that of Hedra, 3,000 schools maintained the management consultants, in March 2008.
Both have positioned by Mouchel.
us very well for the growing number of opportunities.
In our view, the talk of impending melt-down in public sector spending has been very much overdone.
There will be job cuts and a slowdown in capital works: and a fresh look at which services are a priority.
However, with our focus primarily on the management, maintenance and enhancement of existing assets, services and infrastructure, we expect a repeat of previous recessions, whereby outsourcing opportunities increase.
Indeed, we are already seeing many signs that this will be the case, with a growing pipeline of BPO and bundled service bidding prospects coming to market in the next year.
On top of this, highways and traffic will continue to be a growth sector for Mouchel.
We have successfully developed this business in recent years, from study and design, to maintenance management and to the design and implementation of measures which provide greater capacity from the infrastructure assets, often involving the use of advanced technology.
The latter includes control and communications, traveller information, speed controls, traffic flow regulation, road-user charging and parking enforcement.
The UK Highways Agency has embarked upon a programme of investment in Managed Motorways which embraces many of these techniques private sector ownership and operation of the Outlook asset may be the next step.
We are a market leader in many of The economic outlook clearly remains challenging: and there these areas and foresee huge opportunity to deploy our expertise will be a general election next year.
This brings uncertainty but also and skills.
We believe that we will continue to benefit from sustained public expenditure in our markets and from our strong The water utility sector is nearing the end of its current five-year focus on the provision of essential services and maintenance of vital Asset Management Planning AMP cycle and, predictably, has infrastructure.
We are also increasingly seeing opportunities to help slowed down as the individual water companies manage their public sector organisations transform service delivery, save costs highly geared balance sheets and prepare for the new AMP5 cycle, and provide public services more efficiently.
Our prospects continue which begins in April 2010.
We expect to see a corresponding to be underpinned by the visibility of a strong order book and by the increase in activity in this sector once the Regulator approves confidence we derive from a very healthy bidding pipeline.
the new spending proposals of the water companies and the new cycle begins.
The likelihood is that the utility companies will have We dont expect to be short of opportunity winning work will more to spend in AMP5 than in the last quinquennium, especially therefore continue to be the number one issue for us, converting not in the major urban areas.
Mouchel is a top two provider in this just the big ticket bids but also the everyday business opportunities sector and as such we are well placed to assist with this activity.
that arise from our reputation in the industry and from our standing as a trusted partner to the public sector and public service organisations.
People We have an outstanding team of people.
As a result, I have every It has been a privilege for me to be appointed as Chairman of confidence that Mouchel will continue to prosper.
There is no reason Mouchel.
I want to thank my predecessor, Richard Benton, on why we should not see the challenges of the last year as a one-off behalf of the Board for his determination and leadership since the occurrence for Mouchel: and a pause for breath.
He can be rightly proud of his achievements.
My remain confident about our future prospects.
objective is to work with the Board and the executive team to build on the foundations that have been laid since 2002, taking Mouchel Bo Lerenius into new territory in terms of scale.
Chairman Our people all have a passion and enthusiasm for public services, for making everyday life better for citizens and for making a real difference in society.
The breadth of our activities and the depth of our experience are truly amazing and I have been tremendously impressed by the range of talent that the Company possesses.
At 31 July 2009, Mouchel employed 11,121 people, some 2% less than at the same time a year ago, reflecting the lay-offs in the Gulf, some reduction of headcount in the UK and also the increased efficiency with which we have been able to deliver earnings growth.
This was partly offset by growth in headcount from new commissions which started during the year.
Chairmans Statement 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 05 Mouchel Group plc
