Chairmans Statement 4 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial Results Achieving our highest ever level of Success can only be achieved with Profit before taxation is up 21.3% to customer satisfaction reflecting the the commitment and hard work of our 92.3m, and after adjusting for the concerted campaign to improve all management team, our staff and the 9.6m fair value adjustment to financial aspects of the service offered from support of our suppliers.
I would like to instruments 2008, 1.8m the underlying order through to delivery thank them all for the contribution they profit before taxation is up 11.3% to have made in achieving these results.
The initiation of our international trials, 82.7m.
Adjusted earnings per share have notably the launch in February 2009 of grown by 11.2% to 21.96p.
In the current Simply Be in Germany.
environment the board believes it is prudent to recommend an unchanged final dividend Board of 6.41p, making a total of payment of In March 2009 we welcomed Anna Ford to 9.19p, up 1.4%, which is covered the board as a new non-executive director 2.4 times.
and we also appointed Ivan Fallon as deputy chairman of the group.
I believe we Net borrowings at the year-end stood at Lord Alliance of Manchester, CBE have a talented, experienced and balanced 218.3m, an increase of 18.9m on last group of non-executive directors who will year, primarily due to the increase in help management to shape our business interest-bearing trade debtors.
During the strategy going forward.
year we have benefited from decreasing interest rates which has reduced the net Environment finance costs from 15.6m to 12.8m.
Net We have had a proactive campaign to interest payable on borrowings is covered reduce our impact on the environment.
7.5 times 2008, 5.9 times, and gearing is I am delighted that in the last three years 76% 2008, 80% based on net assets of we have delivered an 8% reduction in our 288.3m, up 16.0%.
carbon footprint profile, including a 10% reduction in utility consumption, and we We have committed borrowing facilities now recycle 83% of all our waste.
of 320m in place until 2012, which, together with our other resources and Outlook cash generated by the business, we The next year will be very challenging due believe is more than adequate to cope to the recession, which will see higher levels with any further deterioration in of unemployment, and the ongoing impact the economy.
from the devaluation of sterling, which will put pressure on our input prices.
We have Trading to carefully manage our sales growth and Key highlights in the year have been: debtor book in this environment.
However a key strength of our business is its flexible Growth in all areas of our brand cost base which enables us to adapt to portfolio, from both new and established changing conditions.
customers and from all major product groups Our multi channel strategy, targeting our The ongoing strength of our e-commerce customers with products that fit their activity which has grown by 38% and individual needs, together with excellent now accounts for 34% of all sales, service and delivery options, will remain delivering both higher order values the cornerstone of our strategy in the and reduced transaction costs future and help to ensure resilience to these economic conditions that are likely The strong growth from our newer to prevail into 2010. brands, launched in 2007, which accounted for 36% of the total growth.
The new financial year has started well, In particular we have seen strong demand with sales for the 8 weeks to 25 April 2009 for Marisota, targeting contemporary, 6.1% ahead of last year.
We have plans confident women, and Jacamo, with its in place to continue to invest in our younger menswear in larger sizes, with e-commerce capabilities, develop our a high branded content new brands still further, and will review The ongoing development of our product our international trials to see if they provide range where we have built on the encouragement to explore opportunities extensive range of options available in in other overseas markets.
terms of size and fit, and seen strong growth from our branded and celebritydesigned ranges N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 5
