2 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Chairmans review Anthony Hobson Chairman Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 3 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 In other initiatives, we succeeded in winning These are challenging market conditions, a major contract jointly with DHL to supply British Airways with on-board catering for but our operational and financial strengths its short haul eet starting in 2010.
This takes us into a new market, which plays to position us favourably to address these our strength in providing high quality and innovative convenience food.
We have also markets: to continue our good progress: been enhancing our customer base by building strong relationships with discount and to build a strong business retailers and developing our range of value products, which are becoming increasingly Overview and acquisition led investments.
The Board important in these dif cult times.
has considered that the prudent approach In a tough market and set against a backdrop of a recessionary environment, is to maintain the dividend at the prior year Our employees level of 4.50p per share, giving a dividend Northern Foods has continued to grow into The challenging market in which we a stronger and more effective business, cover of 1.7 times from pre-restructuring operate requires the very best from our cash ows.
The final dividend of 2.95p which is well placed in our sector.
We colleagues within Northern Foods.
Our loyal are delivering growth in value products per share will be payable in August 2009. employees have contributed greatly to our alongside our traditional premium ranges: results in this challenging year and I would maintaining our drive towards lowering Key to our future success is attracting like to thank them for their continuing efforts.
and retaining the right management talent.
costs and increasing ef ciency: and targeting investment and new channels We have made a number of important and Your Board high quality appointments during the year to develop our business.
Your Board has continued to bene t from and enhanced our performance culture.
the skills and depth of experience available A focus on ef ciency and innovation is Performance and dividend to support the management team and Despite very challenging trading conditions: at the heart of everything we do and is a I thank colleagues for their continued key building block in our reward structures.
continued high commodity costs: the commitment and support.
Andy Booker, impact of the stronger Euro for our non-UK Group Finance Director, joined the Board During the year we took the dif cult operations: and investment to build our in November 2008, replacing Jez Maiden brands, we have reported a pro t from decision to mothball our Fenland Foods who left the Group to take up a role at site, when we were unable to reach operations of 52.7m, an increase of National Express Group plc.
Jez made nearly 9% on the previous year.
After a agreement with the main customer of that a very important contribution during his site which would ensure its financial viability.
lower pension nancing credit re ecting three years at Northern Foods and we reduced asset returns, we reported a At our Hull ready meals site, the conclusion wish him well.
of negotiations with our main customer pro t before tax of 47.5m 2007 08: 50.1m.
4 Underlying pro t before tax increased of that site has led to a termination of Summary the supply contracts.
We have much still to do to realise our During the year we spent 11.0m on a share consulting with our employees on a potential and deliver value for all our proposal to cease production and close buy-back programme which bene ted 6 stakeholders.
However, we have made our earnings per share.
Our decision to discontinue supply good progress over the past few years, contracts re ects the need for the Group was 7.76p 2007 08: 7.88p whilst underlying 2 in restructuring and repositioning your EPS increased by 15% to 6.45p 2007 08: to eliminate unpro table, or marginal, 1 business for success.
We are operationally business, and ensure that Northern Foods 5.62p.
Pro t for the period was 2.5m and nancially stronger: have a high quality 2007 08: 34.5m, after restructuring is best placed to succeed in this very management team and are a better competitive environment.
items of 35.4m 2007 08: 4.7m and the balanced and more resilient business.
withdrawal of tax allowances of 12.5m.
These are challenging market conditions, We also continue to evaluate a proposal Our balance sheet is strong with a new but our operational and financial strengths revolving credit facility in place to 2012. to invest in a new world class biscuit position us favourably to address these manufacturing facility.
In a highly markets: to continue our good progress: Your Board is strongly committed to competitive market, this is a signi cant and to build a strong business.
initiative for us, but the current volatile and enhancing shareholder value and maintaining a strong balance sheet.
dif cult economic conditions mean that the Anthony Hobson decision process is complex.
The Board We have, in this challenging and uncertain Chairman economic environment, to be prudent fully recognises the impact these dif cult 27 May 2009 choices have on our employees and their and ensure that we have the capacity to maintain the appropriate levels of organic local communities.
Our top priority is to continue our timely communication with all those affected and to ensure that the consequences of our decisions are mitigated as far as possible.
