Chairmans statement sewer ooding, to reduce the incidence of discoloured drinking water and 1.
27bn to build a 150 million expansion of Abberton reservoir near Colchester to Investment programme safeguard water supplies in the region.
from 2010 to 2015 We have also produced our carbon management plan aiming to reduce our own emissions by 35% by 2020.
This year will see the completion of an advanced anaerobic digestion plant at Bran Sands.
Together with planned works at Howdon, this will increase our use of renewable energy to over 20%, a signi cant step towards our target.
We have also achieved a signi cant reduction in energy consumption as we strive to control use of energy and, therefore, our costs.
The water industry has been affected Our plans seek to build on the less by the current recession than strong reputation we have gained many others but we are not immune.
over a long period by balancing The decline in industrial demand for and satisfying the needs of our water has had an impact on revenue: customers, employees, investors and many of our customers are nding it regulators.
The evidence is that we more dif cult to pay their bills while have achieved that again this year.
our energy costs rose signi cantly.
Our customers tell us we have had Against that dif cult and uncertain another successful year with high levels background we have submitted our of satisfaction reported through our Final Business Plan for 2010-2015 to own independent surveys and those of Ofwat.
The plan proposes an average the Consumer Council for Water.
We real annual price increase over the five are not complacent, however, and the years of 3.4% to support a 1.27 billion new Our Promise to You customer investment programme an increase service initiative promises to get things of 20% on the amount being invested right first time and every time.
Ofwat will use the plan to set draft price limits in July 2009.
It is our employees who deliver We believe our plan is well balanced these high standards of service.
We and re ects the views of customers, are committed to supporting them for whom affordability is a key issue, through our People Plan to ensure and all our other stakeholders and that all employees have the training, regulators.
Everyone will have a further development and skills for their roles.
We opportunity to comment before Ofwats are determined to have the right people final determination of price limits in in place to take the business forward November 2009.
In the plan, we are and to reward them fairly, in recognition proposing major investment to alleviate of their important contribution.
06 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Investors are vital to the delivery of Utility Company of the Year award our long term plans.
We are pleased from Utility Week magazine.
The to recommend dividends in line with judges nominated NWL for that award the progressive dividend policy we because it builds its business around set out for this five year period.
Our regulators set many standards We only receive such recognition and in this report you will see the because of the excellent work of our substantial progress we are making employees and from the productive against these.
This year, there has also partnerships with all those with whom been a great deal of discussion with all we work.
On behalf of the Board, I thank of our regulators as we move towards them all but I must make special mention the new five year investment period of John Cuthbert, the Companys to ensure we achieve an appropriate Managing Director, who has worked balance of cost, quality and risk.
for companies in the Group for many years and who has led the Group since At the heart of our approach to business 2001.
John is retiring on 31 March 2010 we believe we have wide-ranging and will step down from the Board responsibilities to the communities we then.
He has made an outstanding serve.
We were delighted, therefore, contribution both to the water industry to receive many important awards this and to creating a business which we all year which recognise our success.
The believe is well placed to build on its past Queens Award for Enterprise, in the successes and deliver more in the future.
category for Sustainable Development, was a particularly welcome accolade.
The citation recognises work across Sir Derek Wanless the business to support society, the Chairman economy and the environment.
This 2 June 2009 had been preceded by receipt of the Sir Derek Wanless presents Malcolm Huggins with his Health & Safety award.
07 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009
