for a number of years in Europe and 3D: all of this is creating tremendous North America, but also in territories consumer demand for our products where we are less established, such and services as well as creating new as South America and Asia.
revenue streams for our customers.
Global penetration for most of these The underlying theme in all our amazing advancements is still only geographic markets is that demand single digit so there is a great deal to for our products has grown, in play for.
Over the past year we have particular for HD.
This is an area also seen a shift for payTV from being where Pace is an industry leader and a luxury to almost utility status, as it is in 2009 we were in the global top in the USA.
two for overall box shipments.
Today only 4% of global households have As part of our diversication so far made the switch to HD.
But strategy we began deliveries of our researchers expect over 273m HD MultiDweller product to two new households by 2013, with over 10% customers, each one using the of global TV households subscribing product for very different applications.
We also recruited five new distributors to our Networks Approved Partners We are well placed to capitalise on programme.
In 2010 we will add the increasing requirement from customers and distributors to payTV operators, as HD becomes increase our routes to market, grow the norm.
We are delighted that our volume shipments and expect to technology will be enabling millions breakeven.
This will be followed by a worldwide to watch the 2010 football major market push in 2011 bringing World Cup in amazing quality either return on investment.
We also continue our long-term through their payTV subscription or commitment to minimise the through free-to-air services such as environmental impact of our business the UKs recently-launched Freeview operations and set-top box products.
HD service, which will utilise our latest For example, over the last three years, DVB-T2 set-top box development.
total power consumption in our high At the same time there will be a denition PVRs has been reduced by continued requirement for low-end over 70%.
adapter products in the Americas and other markets that will support cable A trusted partner networks in a complete transition from analogue to digital.
Many of our 100 customers consider Pace their supplier of Pace has been instrumental in the choice and technology partner.
current growth that the payTV industry Because our customers operate in is experiencing in digital related highly competitive entertainment products.
We have been successful in and communications markets, they targeting the worlds most successful turn to new technology to deliver differentiated and engaging services payTV operators, providing them with products to enable the market to attract and retain subscribers.
By 2013 global payTV There are opportunities in all our revenues are forecast to reach $14bn, markets, in terms of new products in an overall market for digital TV that and new customers.
This includes will see annual set-top box shipments markets where we have been strong at over 124 million units.
We are already working with our customers and partners on the next-generation of set-top boxes and new technologies.
