06 6 P Pe ear arson p son plc lc A An nn nu ua al l r re ep po ort rt a an nd d a ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 09 9 Chairmans statement It is worth recalling that, only a decade ago, Pearson was a completely different company.
We were the publisher of general interest and sports newspapers in Spain: we were the TV production company behind The Price is Right and Baywatch: we were a part-owner of the Lazard banking houses.
Marjorie and her colleagues had just begun the major move into the global education industry, but had barely articulated the strategy of investing in testing and technology to make learning more personal and more effective.
That year, a boom period in the industry, our operating profits were 490m and our education revenues a little over 2bn: last year, in a deep recession, our operating profits were 858m and our education revenues approaching 4bn.
The scale of our transformation is striking.
It shows that sometimes it pays to take a long-term view.
Glen Moreno Chairman But more important than our scale alone, we have once again demonstrated our credentials as both Twelve months ago I wrote to you with a durable company and a growth company.
The financial results for 2009 that are set out this very sober assessment: elsewhere in this report paint a picture of remarkable None of us is under any illusion: the performance and resilience in an extremely difficult short-term outlook is tough and 2009 will economic environment.
All kinds of companies, There is evidence that those qualities were recognised including our own, will be affected.
by the market over the course of the past year, and that those who held their Pearson shares through In the event, economic conditions were a turbulent period were rewarded.
Our shares began every bit as bad as we feared.
But in that 2009 at 641p, and ended the year 39% higher, at close to nine pounds.
That increase was well ahead of both challenging environment, Pearson turned the major market indices the FTSE 100 was up 22% in an excellent performance by any and the media sector FTSE All-Share Media index up measure.
I attribute this to two things: 29% and DJ Stoxx 600 Media up 20%.
Our people, who stayed close to their The second element of our return to shareholders customers, anticipated significant changes the dividend was further increased in 2009.
So our total shareholder return which combines both the in our markets and worked their socks off: share price movement and dividends paid was up Our strategy, which we have patiently 46%.
Again, this was significantly ahead of the FTSE developed, implemented and invested 100 up 27%, the DJ Stoxx 600 Media up 26% and the FTSE media sector up 34%.
Our decade-long transformation was partly the result of some extensive portfolio changes.
Over those ten years, we made $4.1bn of disposals and $6.3bn of acquisitions.
But underneath those very visible changes, there were some deeply held principles at work.
Those are important to understand, because they tell you as much about our future as they do about our past.
Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 1 Introduction 07 Share price performance 1 year % change Third, companies can sometimes be defined by what 01.01.09 31.12.09 they dont do: by what they choose to avoid.
Because our strategy is about long-term value creation for Pearson 39.0% customers and shareholders, Pearson did not engage FTSE 100 22.1% in short-term financial engineering.
During the credit FTSE All-Share Media 29.2% bubble, we resisted calls to load up our balance DJ Stoxx 600 Media 19.8% sheet with cheap debt and reduce our equity capital.
I believe you can attribute a good deal of Share price performance 3 year % change 01.01.07 31.12.09 our financial stability and competitive strength to our determination to stick to the fundamentals and to take a long-term view.
Pearson 15.5% -13.0% FTSE 100 Fourth, that long-term view is accompanied by -16.3% FTSE All-Share Media a commitment to constant innovation and change.
-29.7% DJ Stoxx 600 Media As youll read elsewhere in this report, Pearson has become a major innovator and investor in digital Total shareholder return 1 year % change 01.01.09 31.12.09 technologies new reading experiences, new learning platforms, applications for new devices, new ways of communicating with and selling to our customers.
Pearson 46.0% This represents a profound and disruptive structural FTSE 100 27.3% change in all our industries: we are encouraged by our FTSE All-Share Media 34.1% progress so far but if we are to remain successful in DJ Stoxx 600 Media 26.1% this new world, we will need to continue to transform Total shareholder return 3 year % change ourselves.
01.01.07 31.12.09 So, the story of 2009 is of a strong business, resolutely pursuing a successful strategy through Pearson 31.9% tough markets and disruptive change.
-2.0% FTSE 100 -7.5% FTSE All-Share Media My personal view is that the prospects for a sustained -19.94% DJ Stoxx 600 Media economic recovery remain fragile.
We have to expect a prolonged period of severely restrained government Source: Datastream and consumer spending.
Its going to be a battle, but one we intend to keep fighting and winning.
Pearson is prepared for it, and ready to help people carry on First, every part of Pearson has a relentless focus learning whatever the economic weather.
on the value we provide to our customers the learner, the teacher, the reader, the investor, the business For that, I have to thank our people for their dedication person.
We know that the ultimate measure of our and ingenuity: and our investors for their commitment performance is shareholder value: but we understand to the company.
As always, I look forward to seeing we can best deliver shareholder value through many of you at our annual meeting.
helping our customers make progress in their lives.
Second, one driver of our transformation has been to make Pearson a reliable and resilient company.
Proud as we are of our performance in 2009, whats even more important to us is the long-term Glen Moreno Chairman consistency of our growth.
For each of the past six years, we have delivered growth in sales, earnings and cash, through both good markets and bad.
08 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Pearsons strategy: Marjorie Scardino, chief executive The Education of Pearson As a company, we learned a lot in 2009.
We started the year facing a ragged array of challenges.
Anyone who stops learning is old, The threat of a full financial meltdown looked less whether twenty or eighty.
seismic, but the aftershocks of recession were rippling out to just about every one of our markets.
In that powerful sentence Henry Ford, At the same time, the gathering pace of disruptive one of the great innovators of the technological change was testing the strategy and 20th century, captured perfectly our imagination of every media company.
attitude to the 21st were trying to So we reviewed the lessons wed learned in previous make sure were always learning.
years keep our eyes on our goal: keep investing: keep people working: change, change, change.
And in spite of the challenges, we can now look back on 2009 as Pearsons best year yet.
To achieve that in any market would be a cause for modest pride.
To achieve it in the most difficult trading conditions Ive seen in my time at the company puts me in awe of my colleagues here.
Its a testament to their talent, ingenuity and sheer bloody-minded grit, for which Im grateful every day.
And its a just reward for our long-term shareholders who had confidence in our vision for Pearson when Marjorie Scardino Chief executive confidence was a scarce commodity.
We thank you sincerely for your trust in us.
