02 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Chairmans Statement Review of Results Board Chairmans Profit before taxation for the 53 weeks to We announced in March the appointment January 2009 was excluding exceptional of Jonathan Warburton as an independent items and impairment charges 23.4m non-executive director.
Jonathan is chairman Statement compared with 21.3m for the previous 52 of Warburtons Limited one of the U. K. s weeks.
This increase of 9.7% represents largest bakers and has therefore substantial another excellent performance in a year commercial experience.
I clearly recommend during which the summer weather was that shareholders confirm his appointment again disappointing and general economic at the forthcoming AGM.
conditions deteriorated across the U. K. We also intimated in the March announcement Turnover for the 53 weeks was 169.7m that it was my intention, at the close of the an increase of 14.4% over the 52 weeks to AGM, to step down as chairman after 31 January 2008.
However adjusting for the 53rd years in that role.
My colleagues have invited week and stripping out the turnover associated me to remain on the board as a non-executive with the Rubicon acquisition, the like-for-like director and I have been pleased to accept increase was 6.6%.
Given the stability now provided, for the foreseeable future, by last years changes Basic earnings per share have risen from at executive level on the board I am sure that 86.75p to 89.12p and your directors are it is the right time to make this further change.
pleased to recommend a final dividend of 30.4p per share to give a total dividend for the year to I am pleased to advise you that the board January 2009 of 42.0p.
This increase of 7.7% will appoint Ronnie Hanna as non-executive demonstrates our continuing confidence in the chairman in succession to myself.
Ronnie ability of our company to maintain its progress has now been a non-executive director of our despite the current economic uncertainties.
company for over five years and has already made a significant contribution to the ongoing People success of our business.
I am confident that he will be able to provide the board with the The further strong performance of the business leadership which will ensure continuing positive was achieved through the skills and commitment progress for our company.
I would like, on behalf of our external shareholders, to thank them all for James Espey will shortly complete 10 years delivering such a successful outcome.
service as a non-executive director, but he will continue in that role for a further limited period.
I therefore recommend that you confirm his re-appointment at the AGM.
23.4m Profit before tax excluding exceptional items and impairment charges Robin Barr Chairman The fur ther strong performance of the business was achieved through the skills and commitment of our employees.
03 Annual General Meeting Turnover in the new financial year is to date ahead of last year.
The soft drinks market Shareholders will find details in the enclosed remains, thus far, resilient in the face of the letter of a number of proposals which will be economic downturn in the U. K. The depth introduced at the AGM as special business.
and duration of the recession are however potentially unprecedented and we cannot be A full explanation of these proposals certain that our own industry will not to some is contained within the letter.
Prospects It is naturally satisfactory notwithstanding Last years acquisition of Groupe Rubicon the effect of inflation to compare last years Limited should become increasingly positive profit with the figure of 1.2m achieved by our as we continue the growth momentum and company in the year immediately preceding my deliver the anticipated synergies.
The financing appointment as chairman in 1978.
Substantial of this acquisition has of course moved us progress has of course been achieved since from holding cash surpluses to a modest level then but I have no doubt that during the years of indebtedness but satisfactory terms were ahead there will continue to be opportunities for negotiated in respect of the required bank further advances.
I am confident that, guided facilities which run until July 2013. by our new chairman, our executive team led by Roger White will be able to grasp them for the benefit of all stakeholders in the company.
Robin Barr Chairman IRN-BRU glass Around 1,000,000 special edition IRN-BRU glasses were given free to shoppers when they bought two large bottles of IRN-BRU in a special promotion last summer.
