DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW Ken Harvey Chairman Pennon Group Plc Chairmans statement BUSINESS OVERVIEW DIVIDEND Another year of profitable I am pleased to say that it has been another We are recommending to shareholders a final successful year for Pennon Group despite the dividend per share of 14.25p, a 5.1% increase growth with Group extremely difficult business environment.
on last years final dividend.
This represents a The prudent approach to financing in the full year dividend of 21.0p which is an increase Group and the actions taken by the Directors, of 6.0% compared with 2007 08.
We are businesses well positioned management and staff have ensured that the continuing our dividend policy of 3% per annum effects of the difficult economic conditions on real increases to the end of 2009 10.
The Board our businesses have been minimised to date.
will then review the dividend policy following in the current economic I am confident that we are as prepared as we the setting of price limits for South West Water can be for what will undoubtedly be further by Ofwat.
Dividends have increased over the last challenges in 2009 10. five years as follows: slow-down FINANCIAL OVERVIEW DIVIDENDs PER oRDINARy sHARE We have seen our Group revenue increase by 22 8.9% to 952.9 million, our underlying profit 20 before tax increase by 6.7% to 165.3 million and our underlying earnings per share rise by 18 3.5% to 38.2p.
At the year-end we had Group 16 cash balances of 353 million and debt facilities of 205 million were established renewed 14 during the year.
12 10 South West Waters Regulatory Capital Value RCV continues to grow with an expectation 8 that it will reach 2.5 billion by March 2010 and 6 Viridors compound annual growth rate in profit 4 before tax since 2001 has been 17%.
2 Underlying measures are defined on page 4.
0 Financial year 2 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts Pence 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 Underlying Full year profit before dividend up 6% tax up 6.7% to 21.0p to 165.3m BUSINESS PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE South West Water increased its revenue in the year by 2.5% and In Pennon Group we strive to achieve best practice in all our business operating profit was up by 3.6%.
There were improvements in operational areas whilst ensuring that we are environmentally sustainable and socially performance together with the outperformance of the operating cost responsible in all the communities in which we operate.
We take into efficiency target set by Ofwat for 2005-10.
The company has submitted its account the views of our shareholders and major institutional groups on Final Business Plan to Ofwat for the setting of price limits for the period what they regard to be the key governance issues.
The focus of the plan has been to keep customers bills as revise our practices, policies and procedures to enable us to demonstrate stable as possible whilst ensuring that the improvements in the companys that we have a strong and appropriately experienced Board with infrastructure made over the last 20 years are protected and maintained governance structures in place which ensure that we can successfully and that further improvements can be made to ensure compliance with respond to the challenges that we face in the best interests of our EU Directives.
This is the third price review whilst I have been Chairman.
What I have noticed is that each review has become increasingly detailed OUR PEOPLE and time-consuming resulting in escalating costs for the company a process which I do not believe is in the best interests of either shareholders The support and commitment of all our staff is key to our success.
I think that once the present review has been completed, it My personal thanks go to them all for their dedication and commitment to would be sensible for Ofwat and the industry to review the process with the the Group as we continually strive to improve performance and successfully objective of achieving simplification whilst maintaining the integrity of a develop our businesses which inevitably leads to more change.
During the year Kate Mortimer, one of our Non-executive Directors, Viridor has once again delivered a strong financial performance in very sadly died.
Kate brought to the Board extensive business experience and challenging market conditions.
It is apparent that the waste industry is sound judgement which are missed.
Martin Angle was appointed as a new changing rapidly with landfill becoming an increasingly scarce resource Non-executive Director in December 2008.
Martin has had a successful and with ambitious EU UK waste management targets for recycling, investment banking career and also has wide ranging business experience, landfill diversion and renewable energy.
Viridors strategy has developed not least of the waste industry.
He is a most welcome and valued addition to reflect these changes and the company is successfully pursuing a to the Board.
These include private finance initiative PFI and public private partnership PPP contracts and also energy from Once again, my personal thanks also go to both the Executive and Nonwaste EfW projects.
Recently Viridor has successfully completed the executive Directors for their support and significant contributions to what UKs largest ever combined waste and renewable energy project with the has been yet another successful and demanding year.
Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority and a 14-year recycling, anaerobic digestion and disposal contract with the South London Waste OUTLOOK Partnership.
Other major schemes are the Lakeside EfW plant joint venture There will undoubtedly be major challenges for all our businesses in at Colnbrook near Heathrow and other EfW projects for which planning 2009 10 and beyond.
permission has been obtained or is currently being sought.
I am confident that we have the right strategy for the Group and that this HEALTH & SAFETY strategy together with the management skills in the Group will steer us Ensuring the health and safety of all our employees is central to our ethos through to a successful future.
We continually strive to improve our occupational health and safety performance and where, regrettably, incidents do occur they are fully investigated and every effort is made to ensure that they cannot be repeated.
Ken Harvey, Chairman Pennon Group Plc 25 June 2009 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 3
