02 Chairmans Statement R I am proud of how our team has responded to the changing world in which we live.
2009 has been a year of These new facilities expire in January 2013 and, together with Introduction dramatic change for both our continuing strong cash generation, provide the necessary Premier Farnell and the level of operational and financial exibility to meet our funding global economy.
Internally we have continued to requirements for the long-term.
Our headroom on these new embed a high performance culture that is driving our bank borrowings, at the end of the year, was 37 million, which together with our cash holding of 39 million, gives relentless pursuit of profitable growth, while affecting us a healthy funding position.
The Group anticipates that the changes to our structure that will permanently alter combination of free cash-ow, existing cash resources and the way in which we operate.
Every action we have available bank facilities will enable it to meet the repayment taken throughout the year was intended to drive of the US$66 million Senior Notes which become due in further value for our shareholders.
This was recognised June 2010. in the market as Premier Farnell was the 35th best performer in the FTSE 250 during the 2009 financial Under the strong leadership of Harriet Green, Chief Executive year, outperforming the broader market and the officer, the Company has now begun to accelerate its Support Services segment.
The nature of the web has enabled us to enhance our back ofce systems to better align with our web front end, thereby requiring less manual processing and greater automation.
This has resulted in improved exibility of the operations as resource is now being redistributed with an even greater focus on best in class sales and improving the customers experience.
We continue to carefully measure our performance relative to our strategic objectives and the Key Performance Indicators set out on pages 8 and 9 of this report.
The full Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report is available on pages 45 to 57 of this report, and there are more details about Sir Peter Gershon the all-employee survey in the case study on page 50.
Chairman We recognise that there are many sectors of our business that are being affected by the state of the global economy, however there continue to be areas that are growing, and We have delivered year on year sales growth of 1% with an we will continue to invest and take advantage of the growth.
accompanying stable gross margin of 39.6%.
The first half Employees across the business have faced new challenges of the year delivered strong growth that was in line with our this year, challenges never before seen.
I am proud of how strategic objectives.
The economy rapidly changed in the our team has responded to the changing world in which we second half and we struggled to achieve the targets we set: live.
I would like to thank all current employees and those who we are however encouraged by the progress we made in have left the business during the year for their contribution.
When we set out our The previous experience of our Board members in leading strategy over two years ago we could not have predicted through recessions is also proving valuable during these the current state of the global economy, but what we did uncertain times and I remain confident that the Premier Farnell predict was the market behaviours we might see if the Board is t for purpose and will guide the Company to a economy slowed.
We said the electronics design engineering strong future.
EDEs segment would continue to outperform the maintenance and repair MRO segment, the web would No-one can predict with any confidence what the coming continue to attract new customers and would become our year will hold, but I am positive that under the guidance of primary sales channel, and developing international markets this strong leadership team, and with the commitment of would continue to grow faster than mature economies.
our employees globally, Premier Farnell will capitalise on all These are precisely the behaviours that we are now seeing.
opportunities available within its markets, while maintaining a very tight focus on costs and cash.
The Board remains Our financial position remains strong with good liquidity and committed to providing investment where the business sees free cash ow.
During the year the Board decided that the growth, and I am confident that our journey to become a risk associated with the renewal of its banking facilities, transformed company, will continue despite the current which were due to expire in May 2010, should be mitigated economic adversity.
When the markets change we will have early in view of the uncertainties associated with the a business ready to seize new opportunities for growth and accessibility of bank finance.
On 28 January 2009 we were continue to exceed customers expectations.
able to announce the conclusion of our renancing which replaced our 200 million bilateral facilities, set to expire in Sir Peter Gershon May 2010, with 150 million syndicate bank facilities.
