Chairmans statement David J Kappler, Chairman BUILDING A STRONG BRANDED FOOD COMPANY We have built a stable platform from which to drive branded growth and deliver shareholder value Performance In the face of these challenges, I am pleased to report a 2009 was dominated by concerns over the economy with solid performance from the business.
We have seen sales of the impact of the financial crisis and the continuing recession 2,661m up 2.2% on 2008.
Trading profit for the year was in the UK.
323m, an increase of 4.5% year on year and broadly in line with expectations.
Branded sales in particular have performed There was also uncertainty over how this would impact the strongly in the year, up 6.5% with market share gains in food industry would consumers switch to discounters and many of our key categories.
I believe that this is a creditable would they trade down from branded products to own label?
achievement in the current economic climate and a testimony The growth of discounters, whilst certainly a feature of the both to the success of our strategy of focusing on branded year, has not been as significant as some had anticipated.
sales and also the work and commitment of management and More important has been the resilience of food brands employees.
despite the spending pressure on consumers.
Refinancing A very important event during the year was the refinancing of the business which raised approximately 380m under a placing and open offer announced in March.
The refinancing has been successful both in removing the uncertainty over the Companys debt position and also in providing Premier with a stable position from which to drive performance.
As shareholders will be aware, prior to the refinancing the Board considered it appropriate to suspend dividend payments.
Future payments will be dependent on the limitations imposed by our current debt arrangements.
Board There have been a number of changes to the Board over the last year.
Following the refinancing, Warburg Pincus became a major shareholder of the Company and under the terms of the placing and open offer have the right to nominate the appointment of a director to the Board.
As a result, in June we welcomed Charles Miller Smith as an additional non-executive director.
Charles has a wealth of experience in both the consumer goods and financial markets, which has enabled him to make a valuable contribution to the Board and support the achievement of the Companys strategic goals.
02 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information After seven years with the Group, Paul Thomas stepped down CSR as Finance Director in August 2009.
Paul was instrumental in We have made important strides in the area of corporate the Companys flotation in 2004 and contributed significantly social responsibility and for the first time have a produced to the development of the Group.
The Board would like to a stand-alone CSR report which is available on our website thank him for his dedication to Premier and wish him well for www.
Key achievements in the year have the future.
been a 5.2% reduction in energy consumption and a 37.7% reduction in waste sent to landfill.
Further information on our In October Jim Smart was appointed to the Board as Chief achievements can also be found in the CSR section of this Financial Officer.
Jim, who previously held the role of CFO at report.
both Friends Provident plc and Boots Group plc, is a wellknown and respected CFO and has made an immediate and Looking Forward positive impact on the Group.
There are indications that the UK economic outlook may now be improving slightly.
Food inflation which has been Christine Cross who was appointed as a non-executive a significant factor over the last couple years, whilst still director in January 2008 retired from the Board at the end of above traditional levels, fell back in the final quarter of 2009.
January 2010 in order to take up a new role as Chief Retail However, the outlook for consumers remains uncertain and Adviser to .
The Board would like to the pressure on spending continues.
thank Christine for her valuable contribution to the Company.
We believe that with the integration of the business now During the year a new Finance Committee was established to largely completed we can focus on our business model of provide additional focus and review in respect of the Groups growing branded sales, using our scale to deliver value to ongoing financial strategy.
David Beever was appointed customers and gaining efficiency benefits from our supply Chairman of the Committee which meets quarterly.
Employees In addition we have a full programme of product development The last few years have been a period of major change for for the coming year designed to help drive sales growth.
I am employees at Premier as a result of the rationalisation of the confident that 2010 will be a year of significant progress for business following the acquisitions of Campbells and RHM.
Staff across the business have consistently shown great tenacity and determination to deal with this change.
Finally, on a personal note, this will be my last report as Chairman of Premier Foods as I will be stepping down as Developing our people and delivering our plans and objectives Chairman following the appointment of a successor during is critical to the success of the Company and to help embed the year.
After six hugely enjoyable years with the Company, a common approach across the business we have developed I have decided that this is an appropriate time for me to the Premier Way which sets out what we believe are the stand down.
most important attributes for our leaders, and this is now being embedded in the business.
In spite of the upheavals in the markets for the last three years, I am pleased to say we have adhered to our strategy of building a strong branded food company, capable of In 2008 we launched our first Employee Recognition Awards competing in a difficult marketplace.
Following a series of to recognise and reward the significant achievements of acquisitions, integration is complete, finances are secure employees across the Group.
It is pleasing to note that over and a strong management team is in place.
From this stable 100 entries were received and details of the winners, which platform, I am confident the Group will deliver and I wish were announced in June 2009, are set out in the employee them well.
The second Employee Recognition Awards were launched earlier this year.
In February we opened the new Group-wide shared service centre in Manchester.
This is the next step in integrating the many systems and processes inherited over the years as the David J Kappler Company has expanded.
Significant progress is being made Chairman by the team there.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 03
