Chairmans Statement the Group has delivered a resilient operational performance in 2009 despite the challenging market environment.
MaaRten HendeRSOn CHaiRMan I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered a resilient operational performance in 2009 despite the challenging market environment, where oversupply in all parts of the value chain has led to strong downwards pressure on prices.
Our strong customer relationships and our focus on operating costs and efficiencies have enabled us to maintain profitability and positive cash flows albeit at a much reduced level from the exceptionally good results in 2008.
Total wafer shipment volume was 4% higher than in 2008 at 239MW.
Nonetheless the significant reduction in pricing for wafers especially in the second half of the year meant that Group revenues were 13.4% lower at 237.3 million.
During the year we continued to reduce unit operating costs in ingot and wafer production.
We have gradually developed the polysilicon production process and ramped up volumes at Bitterfeld during the year, incurring higher expenditure as a result in the short term.
Our EBIT performance, excluding currency losses, was 50.0 million representing an EBIT margin of 21.1%.
Earnings before taxes which included a currency loss of 8.3 million were 42.5 million compared to 147.2 million in 2008.
Our net cash from operating activities remained positive SuMMaRy Of CHaiRManS StateMent at 3.5 million despite income taxes paid of 40.4 million total wafer shipment volume mainly in respect of 2008 profits.
the Board has recommended a final dividend of 0.02 per share.
Michael Parker appointed from 1 January 2010 as a nonexecutive director.
02 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements The Board is mindful of the importance of dividends for At the 2009 Annual General Meeting AGM I announced that the shareholders and has balanced this importance against Group intended to recruit an additional non-executive director the background of the results for 2009, the challenging and in November 2009 we announced that Michael Parker market conditions facing the Group going forward as well would be appointed from 1 January 2010.
I am delighted to as the necessity to conserve cash to pursue our strategy welcome Mike to the Group.
Mike is currently the senior of solid controlled growth in the medium and longer term.
independent director at Invensys plc.
He was previously As a result the Board has recommended a final dividend of president and chief executive officer of the Dow Chemical 0.02 per share to be payable on 9 June 2010 to shareholders Company and latterly chief executive at British Nuclear Fuels plc.
This is a reduction from the Given his extensive experience both as a chief executive and final dividend of 0.04 per share paid last year.
as a non-executive director, I am confident he will make a significant contribution to the Board and the Group.
The Board will monitor the market conditions and will seek to reinstate its progressive dividend policy at the appropriate time.
The continuing market uncertainty causes me to reiterate my comments made last year that we remain cautious about We recognise that the quality of our employees is one of the outlook for 2010.
However, our strong customer orientation, the Groups key strengths and on behalf of the Board I would our dedicated attention to cost reduction, achieving full production like to record our thanks to all of them for their outstanding capacity at Bitterfeld and our positive cash position means the commitment and contribution over the past year.
In particular, Group is able to face the future with confidence.
I would like to congratulate the team at Bitterfeld in Germany for their excellent work in the construction, commissioning and commencement of production at the Groups polysilicon manufacturing facility.
MaaRten HendeRSOn CHaiRMan We are continuing to develop and strengthen our organisation 24 March 2010 and have employed a number of new personnel in key positions throughout the Group.
focused strategy our strategy seeks to combine cost leadership with production flexibility which we believe will strengthen our position as a leading pure-play solar wafer manufacturer.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 03
