2 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 3 Overview Chairmans statement 125 years of innovation 2009 is the year in which we celebrate the 125th Anniversary of the PZ Cussons Group.
Our diverse geographical spread has ensured that the Groups successful track record of profitable growth continues, with our strategy of local brands for local markets enabling us to tailor our product offering appropriately in each territory to suit local economic conditions.
2009 is the year in which we have celebrated to ensure our social, environmental and the 125th Anniversary of the PZ Cussons economic activities continue to be aligned.
As such it gives me special pleasure to advise shareholders that it has been Finally I would like to thank all our staff for another successful year with strong their continued hard work and dedication performance in all our territories despite the in a year when courage and agility have very challenging economic environment.
been necessary to steer the Group profitably through the world recession.
Our diverse geographical spread has ensured that the Groups successful track record of profitable growth continues, with our strategy of local brands for local markets enabling us to tailor our product Anthony Green offering appropriately in each territory Chairman to suit the local economic conditions.
28 July 2009 Our flexibility and speed to market in each territory has enabled us to react quickly to challenging trading conditions as well as significant cost and exchange rate volatility.
The focus on working capital this year has enabled us to significantly reduce our overall working capital levels resulting in a return to an overall net funds position.
In addition, all capital expenditure has been funded from cash flows with our state of the art facility in Manchester now completed and our major investment in Nigeria well under way.
All our businesses are profitable and have significant organic growth potential for the future.
Our balance sheet is strong and we are well placed to pursue further investment opportunities.
Our focus on a great team of people continues to receive the highest priority to ensure that we have the talent through internal development and external recruitment to drive our future growth.
I would like to draw shareholders attention to our Corporate Social Responsibility Committee which was established by the Board this year and is chaired by Mr S J N Heale.
This Committee reflects the Boards recognition that the ways in which the Group monitors and manages the impact of its activities are evolving and confirms our commitment to continue to improve our procedure in this respect.
CSR is an integral part of our strategy and the Committee will be working Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
