DirectorsReport Business Review Chairmans statement A year of strong performance Despite this year being one of the most difficult years for the world economy in living memory, QinetiQ has continued its trajectory of revenue and profit growth and delivered a solid performance.
Underlying profit before tax is up 19%, revenues up 18%, and underlying earnings per share has increased by 18.7%.
To reflect this continued progress in our business the Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.25p per share, giving a total dividend of 4.75p 2008: 4.25p per share.
Underlying earnings per share 15.9p Dividend per share 4.75p 15.9p 4.75p 09 09 13.4p 4.25p 08 08 11.3p 3.65p 07 07 10.2p 2.25p 06 06 8.8p Nil 05 05 Underlying financial measures are presented as the Board believes these provide a better representation of the Groups long-term performance trends.
See Glossary section on page 111 for definitions of Non GAAP terms used throughout this statement.
The collapse in world banking and credit systems has had a Our markets devastating effect on markets everywhere.
Yet governments cannot In the UK, QinetiQ is the second largest contractor to the MOD, and ignore their obligations to protect their people and ensure their as such, is more exposed to the overall economic circumstances of the citizens are as well provided for as possible in terms of security and the MOD despite our strong position in several sub-sectors of that market.
Governments must also look to the future and MODs difficulties in matching its funding to its commitments have how to position their societies in the relentlessly globalised world in been well documented and have led to cutbacks in investment for the which we now live.
Whether they are discharging their fundamental future such as research.
It is a testament to the strength of QinetiQs objectives, or investing for the future, technology is the key lever franchise in the more urgent parts of MODs operations and its governments reach for.
This explains why QinetiQs business portfolio of long-term contracts that EMEAs revenues for the year continues to prosper despite the global downturn.
were sustained with increased underlying profits.
The Consulting and Managed Services sectors of EMEA are well placed in their markets Our progress and our management team is energetically engaged in reshaping Over the past few years QinetiQ has been investing in those segments our Technology business to narrow its focus to those product areas for of our business where we see the strongest demand growing well which we have a strong and sustainable route to market in the future.
Our US business has grown in five years from next to Since its inception in 2001, QinetiQ has enjoyed consistent growth nothing to be on the verge of overtaking our UK business in revenue in revenue, profit and earnings per share.
Sustained profits over the and profit.
This has been achieved by building a first-class US longer term is not just a matter of fortunate decision-making but management team and conducting a targeted and disciplined depends on fundamental characteristics that have deep roots within investment campaign aimed at specific hot spots in the enormous US the organisation.
QinetiQ is a technology services company whose core defence and security market.
Previous acquisitions in vehicle robotics, modus operandi is to bridge the gap between what a customer needs mission systems and systems engineering have delivered handsome to achieve and the technology required to deliver that goal.
It is the results in the year just concluded.
Our most recent investments have knowledge our people have of customer needs and the underpinning targeted intelligence systems and cyber defences where we foresee technology that is our discriminator.
Our people and the values very substantial increases in demand as governments attention that unite them are the core of our offering.
That is also why our switches to more domestic concerns.
educational outreach programmes with schools, through the STEMNET The election of President Obama has enabled the reprioritisation of national Science and Engineering Ambassadors Scheme and other policy in many areas of the US Administration.
His Defense Secretary, commitments in the corporate responsibility arena, have such ready Robert Gates, has already indicated that major platform programmes resonance.
It is the special quality and talent of our people that makes such as the F22 fighter and the VH-71 helicopter programmes will be QinetiQ a special place to work and enables us to deliver outstanding scaled back or cut as expenditure is concentrated instead on wars we results for our customers.
are in today and scenarios for the years ahead.
Conversely, President Obamas stimulus package contains $21.5bn additional funding The Board for federal R&D on top of the increases already proposed which The Board is committed to good and effective governance and to themselves had an 11% increase in funds for DARPA, one of QinetiQs ensuring responsible management in all the Companys operations.
biggest customers for research in the US.
This is integral to the trust our customers and shareholders put in us as a business.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements Employees worldwide Over 14,000 A key role of the Board is to look to the future and part of my function Future outlook is to ensure we have the right balance of skills and expertise around Despite the difficult circumstances, this has been another good year the Board table to face the challenges and opportunities of the world of all-round progress for the Group.
We have achieved good organic ahead.
The Board has also developed comprehensive succession plans growth, have continued to transition our UK business and strengthened designed to equip the Company with the leadership to realise the our offering through targeted acquisitions made during the year.
We potential that has now been created.
I shall be retiring from the have improved operating margins, generated strong cash flow and Group at the 2010 AGM and we have recruited Mark Elliott to join won new contracts in growth markets.
These results demonstrate the Board from June 2009 with the intention that he shall succeed the strength of our operations.
me as Chairman when I step down.
Mark brings a successful record We have started the new financial year with a further strengthening of leadership in technology-based services, particularly IBM, as well of the Groups presence in North America through the acquisition of as senior non-executive experience in substantial plcs.
Peter Fellner, Cyveillance, Inc, a provider of online monitoring technology to identify who has been a member of the Board since 2004 and is Chairman of and track data in cyberspace.
This acquisition should complete in June the Remuneration Committee, will be stepping down from the Board 2009, following regulatory approval.
The reshaping of the Group for the at this years AGM.
Peter has been a source of great wisdom during his future also includes a programme of disposals from amongst our large tenure and I am very grateful for the time and energy he has given the inventory of technologies where others have the market reach to capture Company.
During the year, Doug Webb, who as Chief Financial Officer more value than we readily can.
As part of this, we have completed the helped to take QinetiQ through its privatisation and who has been a part disposal of our investment in Cody Gate Ventures and recently member of the Board since 2005, resigned to take a similar position signed a disposal contract for our Underwater Systems Business, with the London Stock Exchange.
In August, the Board welcomed together generating 37m of proceeds.
David Mellors as a Director and Chief Financial Officer.
Our confidence in the future prospects of the Group is reflected in In September 2008, the UK Government sold its remaining ordinary equity position in the Company.
This completed the disposal process it todays announced 11.3% increase in the final dividend for the year, subject to the approval of shareholders.
had first declared eight years earlier, which has resulted in not only the creation of a very successful international company but also the delivery of around 1bn of value for the Government.
With this disposal of the final tranche of its equity, the Governments right to nominate a Director expired.
Colin Balmer has fulfilled that role and has been a member of the Board since 2003.
Given the special understanding that Colin brings of the working of Government and the MOD, the Board has asked Colin to continue serving as a Director until such Sir John Chisholm, Chairman time as a replacement with equivalent capability can be identified.
21 May 2009 Our people In a very difficult year for the world economy, QinetiQ has turned in another good performance.
This is not a happy accident but it is a product of thoughtful positioning, intelligent investment, strong leadership and most importantly, the skill and commitment of our people.
I would like to offer a special thanks to them for their efforts in delivering the results presented in this report.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7
