Chairmans Statement Strong performance In 2009 the Board conducted its regular In one of the global economys most reviews of the performance and results of challenging years, I am pleased to report the business.
It holds specific reviews with that your Company delivered an outstanding management on strategy, brands, geographic performance.
Continuing a record of strong area and functional performance together with growth in such circumstances is a testament detailed reviews of its human resources and to the quality of the Companys strategy and corporate responsibility.
In addition, the Board execution, its culture, its employees and their completed its annual reviews of corporate leadership, headed up by our CEO Bart Becht.
governance including Board performance, corporate responsibility, and reputational and The headlines for the year were sales growth of business risk.
8% at constant exchange, net income growth of 13% at constant exchange and cash flow Annual General Meeting resolutions from operations of 1,803m.
We also achieved The resolutions, which will be voted upon at impressive market share growth with most of our AGM on 6 May 2010 are fully explained in our Powerbrands.
They will include some amendments to the Articles of Association 2009 was the tenth year since the merger that following the full implementation of the created Reckitt Benckiser.
It was a decade of Companies Act CA 2006 on 1 October 2009. performance, the hallmark of which was the Once again we encourage all our shareholders delivery of exceptional shareholder value.
ten year total shareholder return is one of the highest in the FTSE, standing at 649%.
Thanks On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Cash Bart Becht and his executive team for their In 2009 the strong net revenue growth of the continued excellent leadership of the business has been leveraged into even higher business and thank employees globally increases in profit and cash flow.
This has for their achievement in delivering such allowed the Company to pay down virtually all an excellent performance in the tenth year of the debt created by the Adams acquisition, of Reckitt Benckiser.
leaving the company in strong financial health.
It also enables your Board to propose a final It will be of interest to shareholders to dividend of 57.0p per share.
This brings the know that this year RB won The Economist dividend for the year to 100.0p per share, an Magazines coveted Innovation Award 2009, increase of 25% over 2008. for an outstanding product innovation record.
In addition, our CEO was ranked by INSEAD Board of Directors in research published in the Harvard Business Since the AGM in 2009 we appointed th Review, as the worlds 16 best performing Richard Cousins as a Non-Executive Director CEO over the long term.
Both of these awards and member of the Remuneration Committee, are great testament to the quality of the effective 1 October 2009.
He is group Chief Company.
Details of both of these awards Executive of Compass Group PLC, the worlds and others the Company has been given largest catering company.
He was previously can be found on the Companys website, Chief Executive Officer of BPB plc and is a www.
former Non-Executive Director of P&O plc and HBOS plc.
We also appointed Warren Tucker My thanks go also to my Board colleagues for as a Non-Executive Director and member of their continued support and guidance.
The the Audit Committee effective 24 February Board never takes for granted the support of 2010.
He is Chief Financial Officer of Cobham our shareholders and we thank you for your plc, an international company engaged in the on-going confidence in our Company.
development, delivery and support of advanced The strategy the Company continues to pursue aerospace and defence systems for land, is, in your Boards view, fundamentally sound sea and air.
Richard and Warren bring useful and the management team has our utmost perspective and experience to the Board and confidence in its ability to lead the Company to we welcome them.
There has been one Board continued success.
David Tyler resigned effective 30 September 2009, in recognition of the amount of time he would need to devote to his Adrian Bellamy Chairman new role as chairman of J Sainsbury plc.
Our thanks go to him for his significant contribution to the Board during his tenure.
