Chairmans statement I am pleased to make this first report as Chairman of Reed Elsevier.
The downturn in the economies in all our major geographies in 2009 was deep and unprecedented and it is a testament to the robustness of the business that Reed Elsevier delivered an increase in revenues and adjusted operating profits of 14% to 6,071m and 1,570m respectively expressed in sterling, and an increase of 1% to 6,800m and 1,758m respectively expressed in euros.
The higher sterling growth reflects the impact on currency translation of the weakness of sterling against the US dollar and euro.
At constant currencies, revenues were flat and adjusted operating profits up 1%.
Adjusted operating profits are stated before amortisation and impairment of acquired goodwill and intangible assets and exceptional restructuring costs.
The ChoicePoint business, Anthony Habgood acquired in September 2008, delivered a strong first Chairman year contribution with proforma adjusted operating profit growth of 44%.
Its insurance sector business performed well and the integration of ChoicePoint with LexisNexis Risk Solutions business has been well managed.
Our 2009 results were relatively robust given the depth of the Underlying revenue, i. e. excluding ChoicePoint, was 6% lower.
Reed Elseviers core professional information global recession.
During the businesses held up well, but advertising and promotion markets were significantly impacted by the economic second half we substantially downturn.
Firm action on costs, including execution of strengthened our balance sheet the exceptional restructuring programmes first announced two years ago and now mostly complete, has meant through both an equity placing that underlying adjusted operating margins were only 0.8 percentage points lower than in 2008 and, including and good cash generation.
ChoicePoint, the adjusted operating margin was flat In November, Erik Engstrom took at 25.9%.
This is a highly creditable achievement.
Adjusted profit before tax was up 6% to 1,279m 6% over as CEO and, as expected, lower to 1,432m after higher net interest expense.
The late Including intangible asset amortisation, impairment cycle nature of some of our charges and other exceptional items, reported operating profits were 22% lower at constant currencies mostly markets makes for a tough due to impairment charges.
Reported earnings per share for Reed Elsevier PLC were 22% lower at 17.2p and for environment in 2010 but the Reed Elsevier NV 27% lower at 0.32. fundamentals of our businesses Adjusted earnings per share were up 3% for Reed Elsevier are strong, our balance sheet PLC at 45.9p and 8% lower for Reed Elsevier NV at 0.79.
This takes into account 4% dilution from the is in good shape and new July equity placing.
management is in place with the background, experience and ambition to drive the business forward.
04 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Dividends As was reported in last years Annual Report, Crispin Davis The Boards are recommending equalised final dividends retired after nine years as CEO in March 2009 and of 15.0p for Reed Elsevier PLC and 0.293 for Reed Jan Hommen stepped down in April after four years Elsevier NV, flat and up 1% respectively against the prior as Chairman.
Ian Smith who had been appointed to the year.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 20.4p Board as CEO designate in January resigned in November for Reed Elsevier PLC and 0.40 for Reed Elsevier NV, by mutual agreement.
I would like to thank Ian for his respectively a slight increase of 0.5% and a decrease of contribution over a period of unprecedented economic 1%.
The differing dividend growth rates reflect movements turbulence.
I would also like to add my personal thanks in the sterling-euro exchange rate between dividend with those of my fellow Board members to Crispin and announcement dates.
Jan for their stewardship of Reed Elsevier over many years.
They have left behind a strong business which is well Balance sheet placed in its international markets.
During the year significant steps were taken to strengthen the balance sheet following the $4.1 billion acquisition of Going forward ChoicePoint and the onset of global recession.
Term debt The late cycle nature of some of our markets is making for totalling $2.8 billion was issued in the first quarter of 2009 a tough environment in 2010 but the fundamentals of our and in July we raised $1.3 billion from the equity placings businesses are strong, our balance sheet is in good shape albeit at the expense of earnings dilution.
These together and new management is in place with the background, with excellent cash generation and capital discipline have experience and ambition to drive the business forward.
ensured that we have the balance sheet to support our business strategies in uncertain economic times.
Boards Anthony Habgood We have entered 2010 with a new Chief Executive Officer, a relatively recently appointed Chairman and strong independent Boards.
Erik Engstroms appointment as Anthony Habgood CEO in November is already providing us with positive Chairman leadership based on both a fresh approach and the combination of international media sector experience and depth of knowledge of Reed Elsevier built up over five highly successful years as CEO of Elsevier and an executive member of the Boards.
The strong independent non-executive component of the Boards was further enhanced by the appointment of Ben van der Veer in September.
Bens wide experience and knowledge of international business and finance is of great value to us.
The Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board was also enhanced with the appointment of Marike van Lier Lels in January 2010.
Marikes appointment is in anticipation of the retirement of Dien fide Boer-Kruyt after ten very constructive years as a member of that Board.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 05
