06 Chairmans statement Touching lives through metrology This last year has been the most difficult in the history of the Company, characterised by two different half year performances.
The first half commenced with record first quarter results and a promising outlook for the year, followed by an unprecedented downturn in the ensuing period.
We were forced to make hard decisions in order to position the business for this market environment, pending a return of better conditions.
The cost base had to be reduced to meet the new environment, whilst maintaining our commitment to customer service and new product development programmes.
We had to take a number of measures, the most difficult and painful of which was a redundancy programme under which we had to lose 437 staff 20% of the group workforce giving annual cost savings of 17m.
In addition, staff worldwide accepted a voluntary pay reduction of 20%, equivalent to 1.25m per month, which continues until 31st December 2009, subject to possible additional payments to employees, dependent upon achievement of certain profitability levels.
In parallel there has been a programme to reduce other group overhead expenditure by 10m per annum and a continuing focus on the management of working capital, particularly inventory and debtors in order to sustain positive cash balances.
Sir David McMurtry Chairman and Chief executive Renishaw plc 07 OPERATING RESuLTS QuEENS AWARD There was a marked downturn in the second half of the year, The Company has received the Queens Award for Enterprise: with revenue reducing by some 37% compared with the Innovation 2009.
The Award has been granted for the previous year.
Revenue in the second half was 68.9m 2008 Companys OMP400 ultra-compact high-accuracy touch probe 109.5m and total revenue for the year amounted to 171.2m which is used for 3D measurement on computer numerically 2008 201.2m.
This is a 15% reduction compared with controlled machine tools.
This is the Companys thirteenth the previous year, which would have been a 23% reduction Queens Award.
at previous year's exchange rates.
Revenue, with the sole exception of our spectroscopy products which showed good EMPLOyEES growth, was heavily reduced in all product lines and all main I would like to thank all our employees for their steadfast geographical sectors were affected.
support during what has been the most challenging and demanding period in our history.
They have responded Operating profit for the year before exceptional items was magnificently to all challenges and difficulties both in the 6.0m 2008 37.3m after deducting a doubtful debt provision UK and overseas.
of 2.6m 2008 0.4m and 1.5m in respect of legal costs relating to patent infringement litigation in the United States 2008 nil which was settled in the second half of the financial year.
At previous years exchange rates this operating profit would have been a loss of 1.9m.
After the costs of the redundancy programme amounting to 4.1m and the inclusion of the share of profits of associates of 0.3m and other financial income of 2.5m, profit before tax amounted to 4.7m compared with 43.0m for the previous year.
BALANCE ShEET Capital expenditure during the year amounted to 11.0m 2008 5.3m, reflecting capital commitments made in the first half of the year.
At the year end, net cash balances were 20.5m compared with 38.2m at 30th June 2008.
Group inventory stood at 29.2m 2008 34.2m and total trade debtors were reduced to 24.1m 2008 42.8m.
Trade creditors have reduced from 12.7m to 6.6m with no extension of supplier payment dates.
PENSION FuND At the year end, the revaluation under IAS 19 accounting standard of the Groups defined benefit pension funds, which are closed to new members and for future accruals to existing members, resulted in an increase in the deficit to 22.5m from 11.1m at the previous year end, reflecting poor investment performance and changes to assumptions for liability calculations.
Above: Graduate student Ruby Raheem using a Renishaw inVia Researchers conceive of new Raman use Raman microscope for her research on sperm DNA testing.
Photograph Researchers at the University of Edinburgh, UK and the University of courtesy of The University of Edinburgh, UK.
California, USA are working on techniques of non-destructively testing Renishaw was granted a Queen's Award for Enterprise: Innovation the DNA of sperm and then selecting the best sperm for IVF.
Currently 2009 for the OMP400 probe, which is ideally suited for use on small to most tests that identify damaged DNA require the sperm to be broken medium machines.
It combines miniaturisation and new advances in open prior to chemical analysis, thereby destroying the sperm.
The strain-gauge technology, both pioneered by Renishaw.
new research using a Renishaw inVia Raman microscope could one day lead to a new technique that solves the problem.
Annual report and accounts 2009 08 Chairmans statement continued Touching lives through metrology INvESTING FOR ThE FuTuRE Engineering costs Capital expenditure million million As in prior economic downturns Renishaw continues to make heavy investment in future products and this year Other Land and buildings we are accelerating our new product development to help Research and development Plant and vehicles mitigate the impact of the recession.
% of revenue A number of new metrology products and applications have been added to our established product lines during the year with a number of significant products destined to come to the 35 35 60 60 market in the coming year.
The metrology additions have been supplemented by the licensing of the source code for the Metris Camio CMM software and the acquisition of the business and assets of Qualis Service GmbH, a Germany CMM service and calibration business, both of which enhance the development of the Groups CMM retrofit activity.
Developing from our existing metrology base has been an increasing commitment to healthcare: Our new range of dental products was introduced at the International Dental Exhibition in Cologne, Germany in March.
We acquired a 75% shareholding in Schaerer Mayfield Neuromate AG now renamed Renishaw Mayfield SA, a company based in Switzerland, which is a leading manufacturer of surgical robots, adding to our portfolio of products for the neurosurgery market.
These products were introduced at the Fifteenth Quadrennial Meeting of the 05 06 07 08 09 05 06 07 08 09 World Society of Stereotactic and Functional Neurosurgery held in Toronto, Canada at the end of May with very encouraging results.
The Company has increased its investment in PulseTeq Limited by 25% to a 75% shareholding.
PulseTeq Limited specialises in the development of coils for the enhancement of images from MRI scanners.
Renishaw incise milling machine This new metrology software A bench-top machine which can typically mill 15 to 30 ceramic application enables a frameworks from a single billet of zirconia, including bridges of up complete retrofit upgrade, to 8 units in size.
With an average cutting time of just 30 minutes supplied and supported by per unit, a single milling machine is sufficient to meet the needs of Renishaw.
With full support to most laboratories.
the entire range of sensors, including the award-winning incise CAM software allows you to specify the location on the REVO, MODUS provides zirconia billet where the dental framework will be made.
Renishaw plc 25.4 29.3 31.1 35.4 35.9 14.9 13.2 9.7 5.3 11.0 09 PROSPECTS It is difficult to predict how long the current market conditions will prevail.
Current activity levels are showing some signs of an improvement, but we do not anticipate returning to profitability until the second quarter of this financial year.
The Group, with its strong balance sheet, portfolio of existing products and new products in development broadening into healthcare, remains strongly positioned to meet all present demands and to respond to any increase in activity as it develops.
We continue to face our long-term future with great confidence.
DIvIDEND The Company paid an interim dividend of 7.76p per share in April which was waived by the executive directors.
However, in view of the exceptional adverse trading conditions we have encountered and the consequential impact on our results, we do not propose to pay a final dividend for the year.
We will continue to monitor our performance and intend to return to paying dividends when conditions improve.
The level of such Image guided robotic neurosurgery.
The neuro mate stereotactic dividends and the policy for the future will be determined by the robot is intended to be used in a operating suite for the spatial financial performance of the Group as it recovers.
positioning and orientation of a tool holder or a tool guide in order to guide standard surgical instruments.
Sir David McMurtry CBE, RDI, CEng, FIMechE, FREng Chairman and Chief Executive 29th July 2009 Above: Planning for precision.
neuro inspire stereotactic neurosurgical planning software is both functional and intuitive and designed with present needs in mind as a starting point, but ready when new emerging therapies arrive, be it drug or stem cell delivery.
Note: neuro inspire is currently available in Europe only.
