Chairmans Statement 2009 was a difficult and turbulent year for most businesses as the global economy saw a significant reversal after years of growth.
Retailers and suppliers dramatically reduced their inventory levels to protect cash and there was a radical change in consumer behaviour as loss of confidence caused individuals to rein in their expenditure, especially on discretionary purchases.
Rexam was not immune to these macro factors.
Trading in 2009 was very challenging and it is disappointing to report a loss after tax on a statutory basis of 29m.
Details of our underlying and statutory performance can be found in the Business Review, but let me highlight the key points.
In summary, Peter Ellwood reported Group sales grew 5% to 4,866m due to favourable Chairman foreign currency exchange.
Organic sales, however, which excludes the impact of acquisitions, disposals and currency, declined 7% mainly as a result of lower volumes, especially in Plastic Packaging and parts of Beverage Can Europe, and the pass through of lower aluminium and resin costs to customers.
Underlying profit before tax was down 13% to 285m and underlying earnings per share dropped to 25.4p.
But the figures only tell part of the 2009 story.
In the first part of the year we experienced, as did our customers, declining volumes.
We focused therefore on taking cost out of the business and protecting our cash flow.
Our expectation was that trading would stabilise in the second quarter as customers replenished stocks.
We announced the closure of plants in both Beverage Cans and in Plastic Packaging to balance capacity with demand, as well as headcount reductions including a number of senior management positions.
We focused on improving working capital and reducing capital expenditure to optimise cash flow.
However, conditions did not improve in the second quarter and it became apparent that destocking had given way to lower demand especially in the more cyclical and premium parts of our business such as dispensing systems, specialty cans and beverage closures.
As you will see in detail in the Business Review, this put pressure on profits and cash flow.
It became clear that our capital structure would not cope with this drop in operating profits and that our credit rating consequently was coming under significant pressure.
We had to act swiftly to address this, and that is why the Board decided to proceed with a rights issue.
We are today a stronger and more competitive Company than at the start of 2009 and we are well placed to participate in the upturn when it comes.
4 Rexam Annual Report 2009 Rights issue Changes to the Board Let me briefly give you more background to the rights issue.
At the One of the Boards most important tasks in 2009 was to manage beginning of 2009 our debt stood at 2.6bn.
Whilst a large part the succession of the Chief Executive, Leslie Van fide Walle, once he of the increase in 2008 was due to currency translation, driven by had signalled his intention to retire.
The search for his successor by the weakness of sterling against the dollar, the underlying cause the Nomination Committee followed due process and was both swift behind the level of debt was our significant capital expenditure and thorough.
We are delighted that Graham Chipchase accepted programme and the acquisitions of OI Plastics and Rostar.
The the offer to become our new Chief Executive.
He has been a expectations were that these investments would yield the profit growth member of the Board since 2003, first as Finance Director and required to service and pay down debt and help to maintain our then as Group Director, Plastic Packaging.
He knows Rexam and investment grade rating.
Indeed, our investments did begin to bear its people well through his financial and operational roles and has fruit in the first half of 2008 when we saw 8% organic growth in demonstrated the leadership skills to take our Company forward.
both sales and operating profit.
With Graham at the helm, we look forward with confidence to the next phase of Rexams development.
In March 2009, the credit rating agency Standard & Poors downgraded Rexam to the lowest investment grade rating with a I would like to take this opportunity to thank Leslie for his contribution stable outlook and, whilst Moodys reaffirmed its investment grade to Rexam.
He achieved much during a period of unprecedented rating, it changed its outlook from stable to negative.
The rating turmoil in the global economy.
We wish him every success in agencies indicated that unless we made meaningful debt repayment the future.
in 2010, there was a significant risk that we might lose our Summary investment grade status.
The continued trading shortfall in the second We are committed to improving our performance in 2010. quarter of 2009 meant our ability to reduce that debt meaningfully The Board believes that the investments made in recent years became extremely questionable.
to strengthen our business were the right decisions.
As our profit In the prevailing economic climate, the loss of investment grade performance declined in the wake of the global recession, we acted would have had significant negative consequences on the cost and resolutely and are today more appropriately based in terms of cost availability of credit.
The Board did not consider this an acceptable and capital structure for the current trading environment.
risk, especially in view of the need, at that time, to refinance The consumer packaging industry remains fundamentally attractive approximately 2.5bn of debt facilities as they mature between and the sector is relatively resilient.
Rexam is a strong and profitable 2011 and 2013.
Given the results of trading in the first half, it global business.
We have a sound financial position following the would have been irresponsible to simply hope that our investment rights issue, well invested assets with good market positions and grade status would be maintained without any action by ourselves the right people in the right place.
beyond what we were already doing or, indeed, hope that there would be a marked improvement in a global economy that was We demonstrated a reasonably resilient operational performance experiencing the longest and deepest recession in recent times.
in 2009 and the actions we have taken are well on track to deliver Having examined all options available, we determined that the only value for shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank course that would strengthen our capital structure to accommodate the executive team for their leadership of the business and all our the trading environment would be a rights issue.
employees across the globe for their contribution in achieving these results.
My thanks also go to our shareholders for their support during I am pleased to say that the rights issue was successful and that this challenging year.
Rexam is now rated stable outlook investment grade by both rating agencies.
The rights issue raised 334m net proceeds which was We are today a stronger and more competitive Company than at used to pay down debt.
Together with an excellent 2009 cash flow the start of 2009 and we are well placed to participate in the upturn performance, we now have a much stronger balance sheet and debt when it comes.
at the end of the year, at 1.8bn, was 0.8bn down from a year earlier.
Change in dividend policy The trading environment and the rights issue also caused us to re-examine our dividend policy.
In 2008, we increased the dividend by 5% but did so by increasing the debt burden as we did not have enough free cash flow from which to pay that dividend.
This was not a sustainable policy.
In conjunction with the rights issue, we decided not to declare a 2009 interim dividend and, whilst this was disappointing to many of our shareholders in the short term, it was Peter Ellwood seen as best for the Company and shareholders in the long term.
Chairman Recognising the importance of the dividend to many shareholders, 17 February 2010 the Board will propose a final 2009 dividend of 8p per share payable on 3 June 2010 to holders of shares registered on 7 May 2010, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in May 2010.
In the medium term we intend to establish dividend cover in the range of 2.0 - 2.5 times underlying earnings, split broadly one third, two thirds between the interim and final payments.
This is naturally predicated on financial resources being available and underlying earnings developing as currently anticipated.
