6,298 10,303 7,443 7,338 4,955 Overview Chairmans statement A year of two halves Jan du Plessis Thanks to a number of signifi cant decisions on our part and assisted by a more favourable external environment, we have recovered our poise and steadied the ship.
During what was clearly a historic and stronger balance sheet.
In short, thanks to a relationship with Chinalco and to pursue tumultuous year for the global community, number of signifi cant decisions on our part business opportunities that may be to our Rio Tinto found 2009 to be particularly and assisted by a more favourable external mutual benefi t. testing.
It certainly felt at times as if we environment, we have recovered our poise were experiencing an amplifi ed version of and steadied the ship.
Improving prospects the global fi financial crisis and its knock-on In deciding that we were not able to pursue Chinalco effect on business confi dence, demand for the transaction with Chinalco, the board commodities and availability of credit.
Looking at the year as a whole, our attempt was nevertheless delighted that it was able to establish a strategic partnership with the to announce the proposed production joint However, despite the early trauma, for largest Chinese resources group and our venture with BHP Billiton in relation to Rio Tinto it turned out to be a year of two largest shareholder, Chinalco, was undeniably our respective iron ore assets in Western halves.
After the particularly diffi cult fi first a very signifi cant event for Rio Tinto.
The joint venture will allow few months, characterised by our balance proposed transaction would have allowed us us to capture the enormous long term sheet challenges, very weak demand, to establish a highly important strategic link synergy benefi ts that would result from low product pricing and the contentious with the Chinese market, whilst at the same the integration of our production facilities.
Chinalco transaction, our fortunes improved time enabling us to signifi cantly recapitalise considerably as the year progressed.
As a The value that could be captured has been our balance sheet.
Especially in the context result of shareholder support for our rights estimated to be at least US$10 billion.
of the situation prevailing at that time, the issues, together with the success of our We simultaneously announced major rights board considered the Chinalco proposition disposal programme and improved operating issues which took place in the UK and both strategically and fi nancially attractive.
conditions, we ended the year with a much Australia in June and July.
These raised net The transaction was nevertheless highly proceeds of US$14.8 billion which were used controversial.
On becoming chairman in April to repay debt, well ahead of our original Underlying earnings it was evident to me that I needed to look for US$10 billion target.
The rights issues US$m guidance from our shareholders.
During the attracted an extraordinary vote of confi dence ensuing consultation process, I met with a in Rio Tinto, with 97 per cent of shareholders large number of shareholder groups in the UK, taking up their rights in Rio Tinto plc, and Australia and elsewhere.
It became clear to a 95 per cent take up in Rio Tinto Limited.
me that many shareholders had considerable All of Rio Tintos directors, as well as Chinalco, misgivings about the proposed transaction.
took up their full entitlement of shares.
These concerns related not only to the fi financial These decisions brought relief from some terms of the transaction, but there were high of the pressures of the earlier months of the levels of discomfort about the structure of our year.
It put the period of unusual corporate relationship with Chinalco.
The board could activity behind us and fi nally gave us a fi rm not ignore the strength and depth of these foothold to advance into the second half feelings although, in deciding not to proceed of the year.
As we saw markets improve in with that transaction, we deeply regretted the subsequent months, I was particularly the loss of a unique opportunity to establish pleased to see the executive team focused on a strategic partnership that would have 05 06 07 08 09 fundamentally changed our relationship fi first class operational delivery as a priority for with our largest customer base.
We ended the year with a strong continue to work towards extending our set of production fi gures and the achievement 6 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Overview Performance and reserves Governance statements information of a number of production and sales records.
Global Leaders 2009, published by Dow Outlook This of course also signalled a signifi cant Jones Newswires and an Italian business daily.
The outlook for mining and metals is pickup in physical demand for our products.
improving but remains volatile and uncertain Our recently completed mineral sands mine in the short term.
The latest leading in Madagascar won South Africas prestigious Results and dividend indicators for developed economies imply 2009 Nedbank Environmental Award in the The strong production numbers, coupled that we may have returned to expansionary environmental category, for signifi cant effort with improved commodity prices, translated territory, although no one knows to what in protecting or improving the biophysical into a signifi cant improvement in operating extent or for how long.
The pick up in metals environment in which it operates.
cash fl ow in the second half.
This, together demand at mid year was primarily driven Rio Tinto became a signatory to the UN Global with the proceeds of our rights issues and the by government stimulus measures and a Compact in 2000 and we were one of its early disposal of assets, signifi cantly strengthened recovery in economic activity which caused supporters.
We also remain an active member our balance sheet.
Rio Tinto started 2009 producers to return to buying raw materials.
of the World Business Council for Sustainable with net debt of US$38.7 billion and a debt to The key driver for the mining industry Development and the International Council equity ratio of 63 per cent.
We had made the continues to be demand from China.
Record on Mining and Metals, whose members are commitment in December 2008 to reduce net Chinese metals imports have served to offset committed to superior business practices in debt by US$10 billion during 2009.
Net debt weakness in other markets.
However, we will sustainable development.
at the end of 2009 stood at US$18.9 billion also need to see OECD economies improve with gearing much reduced to 29 per cent.
Governance and board and a resumption in international trade fl ows to fully support a global economic recovery.
The Groups underlying earnings in 2009 The board is committed to high standards were US$6.3 billion, 39 per cent below of governance as the foundation of our Similarly, there are concerns about the 2008.
Net earnings were US$4.9 billion ethical approach to business.
In 2009, we sustainability of Chinese demand in the strengthened our governance system by compared with US$3.7 billion in 2008. short term.
Longer term, China is likely to renewing our global code of conduct, The Cash fl ow from operations decreased move towards more domestic, consumption way we work, establishing a common Group 33 per cent to US$13.8 billion.
wide code to replace business unit codes With our balance sheet signifi cantly of conduct.
The code serves to spread our Our people strengthened and our prospects much values of accountability, respect, teamwork Our year of two halves demonstrated improved, we are pleased to be able to and integrity throughout the organisation commendable perseverance as we moved reinstate the dividend.
Total dividends by providing guidance on how employees from diffi culty to success.
Facing up to declared for 2009 were 45 US cents per should conduct themselves at work and setbacks and promoting recovery has share.
The Group expects that the total when representing Rio Tinto.
Our confi dential shown Rio Tinto to be a high performing cash dividend for the 2010 fi financial year whistleblowing programme, Speak-OUT, organisation.
We have come through these will be at least equal to the total cash is a key element of The way we work, testing times thanks in no small measure to dividend of US$1.75 billion paid in respect available in the language of the employees the quality and commitment of our people.
of 2008, albeit spread over an increased choice to alert senior management to any The downturn unfortunately necessitated a serious issues or inappropriate behaviour number of shares.
From 2010 on, we are reduction of about 16,000 employees and that employees do not feel able to discuss committed to a progressive dividend policy contractors across the Group which took place with management on site.
mainly in the early months of the year.
Since Your boards enjoy a balanced representation then we have stabilised the organisation Sustainable development of viewpoints and a wealth of business and a renewed management structure has Rio Tinto conducts business in an ethical experience.
Sir David Clementi and David been introduced.
These steps will provide and socially responsible manner aimed at Mayhew will retire as directors at the the platform to mobilise and energise the building a positive reputation and ensuring conclusion of the 2010 annual general workforce and give us the momentum to ongoing access to people, capital and mineral meetings.
The boards thank them for their resume growth.
Delivering on our commitment valuable contributions over many years.
The board and I would like to express our We welcomed Ann Godbehere, who has means making sustainable development collective appreciation to Group employees 25 years experience in the fi financial considerations an integral part of our business and contractors around the world for their services industry, to the board on 9 plans and decision making processes.
strong commitment and unfl agging efforts February 2010.
She will be chairman of the in 2009: for their focus on safety, operational Rio Tinto was again identifi ed as a Audit committee.
Robert Brown, who has excellence and delivery to customers, as well sustainable development leader during considerable global business experience in as for conducting our business in a socially the year by retaining its listing on the Dow the aerospace industry, will join the boards responsible way.
Jones Sustainability Index DJSI World on 1 April 2010.
Ann and Bob will be Index and DJSI STOXX Index as well as the standing for election at the annual general FTSE4Good.
We have been included in the meetings in April, along with Sam Walsh, DJSI series since 2002 and the FTSE4Good chief executive, Rio Tinto Iron Ore and since becoming eligible for inclusion in 2007.
Australia, who joined the boards effective Rio Tintos long standing commitment to 5 June 2009. sustainable development and the quality of Jan du Plessis our sustainable development web pages have been recognised in the CSR Online Awards Chairman www.
