chairmans statement Chris Cole, Chairman Top of the Recovery market managing the cycle Downturn I am pleased to report that Ashtead The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.675p per share 2008: 1.675p making 2.575p for the year 2008: 2.5p.
Re ecting the bene t of has continued to perform well over the the reduced share count following the share buy-backs earlier in the year, past year, despite increasingly dif cult payment of the 2008 9 dividend will cost 12.8m and is covered 4.5 times by underlying earnings from continuing operations.
If approved at the economic conditions.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on As announced with our interim results last December, we took an early 11 September 2009 to shareholders on the register on 21 August 2009. decision to implement a signi cant cost reduction programme across the In addition, the Group returned 16m to shareholders during the year Group.
Combined with our strong operating culture, this has enabled us through share buy-backs.
In total, from December 2007 when the to deliver good pro ts in the past year against a background of slowing buy-back commenced until January 2009, the Group acquired 10% economies.
The programme has also helped us prepare the business for of its issued capital or 59m shares at a cost of 39m.
The buy-back the market conditions ahead, as well as generating a positive contribution programme was suf cient to eliminate any earnings dilution resulting to our cash ow.
from the Technology disposal at a cost equivalent to around 40% In addition, the cost reduction programme has been carefully structured of the 89m Technology net disposal proceeds, with the other 60% to ensure that we have retained intact the ability to service all our core or 50m used to reduce outstanding debt.
This, I believe, means that Ashtead will prove to be well positioned The Board intends to continue to renew its shareholders authority for to bene t quickly from the economic upturn when it comes.
Your share buy-backs at the forthcoming 2009 Annual General Meeting, but management team describes in detail in this report the strategies we will be discerning in its use given the current economic uncertainty.
have in place to maximise performance throughout the downturn and return to growth once the cycle moves on to the next phase.
Balance sheet strength As part of the Boards ongoing strategic review processes, in recent Financial results and dividends years we have devoted considerable effort to ensuring that our financial We achieved good first half pro ts and earnings growth in slowing structure, as well as our business model, is suited to our cyclical business.
markets which deteriorated further in the second half but this still led This emphasis has ensured that our debt package is structured to cope to a robust underlying pre-tax pro t for the year of 87m 2008: 112m.
with the challenges of the current market conditions.
We retain substantial Underlying revenue was 1.07bn 2008: 1.05bn whilst, after exceptionals headroom on our debt facilities which are committed for the long term.
and amortisation, the pro t before tax was 1m 2008: 110m.
Availability at 30 April 2009 was $550m, substantially in excess of the Our cost reduction programme, announced in December 2008, has $125m level above which all our facilities are covenant free.
Net debt lowered the annual cost base by more than 100m and was substantially to underlying EBITDA at constant exchange rates was 2.6 times at complete by year end.
Including the proceeds generated from the sale of 30 April 2009, only marginally above last years 2.5 times and still surplus equipment, the programme generated a net cash in ow of around close to the mid-point of our two to three times target range.
The accounts include a one-time exceptional charge of 54m after Moving forward, the Group retains substantial long term commitments tax incurred in delivering the cost savings, whilst last Junes sale of our from its lenders with the first maturity being the syndicated bank loan Ashtead Technology division generated a net exceptional pro t after tax of which only becomes due in more than two years time in August 2011.
Underlying earnings per share for the year were 11.9p 2008: 14.8p The Board keeps the Groups debt maturities under regular review and, whilst, after exceptionals, basic earnings per share were 12.5p 2008: 14.2p.
in the coming scal year, will continue to assess the appropriate timing for re nancing this debt well ahead of its maturity.
5 Conditions have clearly become more difficult: however, we continue to believe that the fundamentals of our market remain attractive.
Chris Cole Corporate governance Our people The Board continues to be committed to maintaining high standards of As always the Board and management of Ashtead owe a huge debt corporate governance.
In the current climate the Boards rigorous scrutiny of thanks to our employees.
This year has been a dif cult one and we of the business becomes ever more important and throughout the year expect next year to be equally challenging.
We are very grateful for the we have conducted a thorough review of the Companys strategy and continuing dedication and loyalty of our workforce who make Ashtead risk management to help the business withstand the economic downturn.
a great place to work and provide a superior resource for our customers.
Despite operating in dif cult and uncertain markets we are con dent Current trading and outlook that we have the necessary structures in place to minimise trading risk.
May and early June have seen rental volumes in line with our expectations In addition, we have continued to make good progress this year on whilst rental yields have shown some tentative signs of attening month our environmental, health and safety initiatives and management has on month.
As a result, the Board con rms that its current expectations established a Group Risk Committee to pull together all the work we regarding 2009 10 performance are unchanged from those described in are doing at subsidiary level and provide further impetus in this the trading update issued on 11 May.
We continue to believe that the fundamentals of our markets remain Board composition attractive and that, with our continuing focus on meeting the challenges A lot of time was spent by the Nomination Committee in the year of current market conditions and on cash generation, we are well considering the effectiveness of the executive directors and in particular positioned for the next phase of the cycle.
the future management and direction of the Groups principal subsidiary, Sunbelt.
As a result, it was decided to recruit a new chief executive for Sunbelt and the Nomination Committee was delighted to identify and recruit Joseph Joe Phelan who joined Sunbelt and the Board in April.
Joe, an American citizen, joined Ashtead from Deutsche Post DHL where he was chief executive of DHL Global Mail and a member of Deutsche Posts executive committee.
Before joining DHL in 2004, Joe held a Chris Cole number of senior executive positions with American Airlines.
Joes broad 17 June 2009 operational management experience has been welcomed by the Sunbelt management team and together they are looking forward to addressing the challenges of current market conditions and to further developing Sunbelt in the next phase of the cycle.
Consequent to Joes appointment, Cliff Miller ceased being a director of Ashtead and his employment with Sunbelt terminated.
In his period as chief executive of Sunbelt and throughout his 13 year career with Ashtead, Cliff helped Ashtead develop Sunbelt from the small regional business it was when he joined it in 1996 to the large national rental company it is today.
It is therefore appropriate that I place on record the Boards thanks to Cliff and our appreciation for all his efforts.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
