02 Business review Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Our balance sheet remains strong and the long-term nature of our business gives us exceptional visibility of revenues for many years to come.
Simon Robertson, Chairman At the end of an extremely challenging year for the world economy, I am pleased to report that Rolls-Royce has delivered another solid performance in 2009.
This demonstrates both the resilience and the long-term nature of our business.
Underlying profit before tax has increased by four per cent and despite intense competition, our order book has grown from 55.5 billion in 2008 to 58.3 billion in 2009.
We are proposing a final payment to shareholders of nine pence per share, bringing the full year payment to 15.00 pence.
This is an increase of five per cent, and reflects the Boards continued confidence in the Groups business.
In the past year, the degree of uncertainty facing global markets has somewhat diminished.
Sharp declines in output have been arrested and growth is returning to most of the worlds major economies, albeit at considerably reduced levels.
Overall the economic environment remains tough.
Therefore we shall continue to focus on operational efficiency, while maintaining our commitment to research and development and to investment which supports our growing order book.
Our strategy of developing our business in new markets and geographies and increasing the revenues we earn through long-term service contracts, positions us well to take advantage of commercial opportunities as they arise and to deliver sustained growth.
The power Full year payment to shareholders systems and services we sell employ complex technologies and demand advanced engineering skills, which together create high barriers to entry.
Our balance sheet remains strong and the long-term nature 14.30p 15.00p of our business gives us exceptional visibility of revenues for many years to come.
2008 2009 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Chairmans statement continued 03 It is particularly important in periods of economic uncertainty that a example of this is our sponsorship of the Rolls-Royce Science Prize for companys core values are defended and strengthened.
Our schools which attracts greater interest every year.
In 2009, 1,500 schools commitment to acting with integrity is at the heart of the way we took part, with 2,000 schools expected to participate in 2010.
In 2008, Rolls-Royce established an ethics committee, which top award of 20,000 went to Kells Lane Primary School, Gateshead, reports to the Board.
In 2009, we published a new Global Code of England for a really innovative wind turbine project.
Business Ethics and distributed this, with face-to-face training, to all our employees worldwide.
The Global Code establishes industry-leading Rolls-Royce supports a wide range of charitable causes, with much of standards and is supported by a rigorous process for reporting and that support directed towards educational programmes which promote monitoring to ensure compliance.
The Board is committed to improving the environmental performance I would like to thank the management and all our employees for the of our products across all our business sectors.
We have always commitment and the flexibility they have shown in the past challenging recognised that technology and innovation are critical to achieving 12 months.
I would also like to record my gratitude to my fellow such improvements.
As a consequence we commit two-thirds of our directors for their continued hard work and support.
There have been research and development expenditure to developing solutions to no changes to the Board during the past year, but I would like to take these challenges.
Substantial progress has been made over many years.
this opportunity to thank Charles Blundell for his contribution to Our products are significantly more fuel efficient than they were a Rolls-Royce and his services to the Board where he served as Company decade ago.
We continue to look for further advances through the Secretary from 1995 to 2007.
He retired this year from the position of Environmentally Friendly Engine and other research programmes.
In our marine business, we have extended our range of engines that run on liquefied natural gas, offering far better emission performance 2010 will present significant challenges for Rolls-Royce.
However the than conventional diesel powered engines.
We also actively explore resilience of the Groups performance reflected in this report, the the opportunities presented by civil nuclear and other sustainable fundamental strength of its business model and the proven capabilities energy technologies.
of the management team, give me confidence that Rolls-Royce will continue to find opportunities in the marketplace and deliver Rolls-Royce is a long-term business operating in global markets and sustainable growth for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
we have benefited again in the past year from the wise counsel of our International Advisory Board IAB, which was established in 2006 to advise on emerging political, business and economic trends Simon Robertson membership of the IAB is shown on page 69.
The IAB provides Chairman high-level strategic input to the Board and management.
Its members February 10, 2010 bring a deep understanding of global issues affecting Rolls-Royce and of the markets and countries we operate in.
The life-blood of Rolls-Royce is its people.
It is their pride in what Rolls-Royce has achieved and, even more important, their vision of what can be achieved in the future, that will secure our continued success.
As I travel around the world, I am constantly impressed by the calibre of the men and women I encounter at every level of the Group.
From our apprentices and recent graduates to the most experienced and knowledgeable of our engineers and scientists, it is their ideas, their insight and their motivation which give Rolls-Royce its competitive edge.
The Board is committed to investing in the development of future generations who will, in time, ensure the success of the Company.
I am very proud of our employees.
We remain committed to developing their skills through a range of world-class training programmes, as well as by encouraging a wider interest in science and engineering.
A good Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
