Chairmans Statement Divisional Highlights 2009 saw Rotork achieve further significant revenue and profit growth - despite Rotork Controls, our largest division a subdued trading environment in a number of our markets.
General market accounting for 64.3% of Group revenue, conditions are showing signs of improvement with increasing project activity and is the market leader in electric valve actuation.
Sales revenue grew in the encouraging levels of quotations.
We serve long term growth industries, and are year by 11.2% to 227.3m and operating targeting the Group wide opportunities that these present.
We have continued to profit increased by 26.4% to 72.6 m. invest in our production facilities and product development programmes and are While there have been project delays in a therefore well positioned to capitalise internationally on the improving market number of sectors and markets, the level of project activity and quotations made, conditions through the delivery of high quality competitively presented products show that the medium term demand for and services.
our products remains strong across all sectors and geographies that we support.
Financial Highlights We continue to reinforce our position as For the year, revenue at 353.5m was up market leader.
10.4% on the prior year and profit before tax increased by 20.0% to 90.9m.
We Rotork Fluid Systems RFS has improved Group operating margin from been the division most impacted by 23.4% to 25.9%, and closed the year delays in activity with around 95% of with strong cash balances and a good its business exposed to the oil & gas order book.
Nevertheless revenue grew by 12.6% and operating profit by 17.8%, Currency has certainly been a positive and improved operating margin to 14.3% influence in the year, both in terms of 2008: 13.6%.
We are now starting to see our competitive position internationally operational gains from the restructuring and in the translation of results of our of some of our production facilities and international businesses although the Roger Lockwood Chairman this should benefit the current year.
We volatility that we saw in the first half believe that we have grown our market settled later in the year.
At constant share substantially over the last few currency the increase in profit before years and have brought innovation and tax was 5.1% on revenue that was up technology to a relatively conservative less than 1%.
The acquisition of Flow-Quip in November is a positive step for us, giving access to improved product application offerings in some new geographic markets, and we expect to see the benefit of this in 2010.
Rotork Gears performed well in a difficult market although revenue at 36.8m showed no increase over the prior year and operating profit slipped back.
Higher costs of material were experienced during the year and this is taking some time to be resolved.
However, opportunities for growth continue to be good and our strong position with international valvemakers, supported by our wide product range and technical excellence, give us confidence for the coming year.
Our new facility in India will begin production in the second quarter and this is an important development for us in what is an important market that is increasingly difficult to access through imports.
Core Dividend Additional Dividend Dividend An additional dividend of 11.5p will be paid in July 2010.
Jonathan been strong with year end net cash has gained considerable experience of balances increasing to 78.7m which the business initially as Group Financial represented cash conversion of 117.1% Controller and currently as Finance We serve long term of profit in terms of our key performance Director of Rotork Controls.
Working capital growth industries, and management has been helped by our Alex Walker has been a non-executive are targeting the Group inventory reduction programme and director since 2001 and for the last few good receivables management.
The cash years has chaired the Remuneration wide opportunities that balance was of course after the purchase Committee.
Having now completed nine of Flow-Quip in November which was years on the Board Alex will retire at the these present.
He leaves with our best wishes and appreciation of his Dividend valued advice and support.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 17.25p, which together Outlook with the interim dividend paid in May Rotork benefits from a focused long term represents an increase of 9.2% over the strategy.
Our breadth of product offering, 2008 equivalent.
This will be payable on strong balance sheet and international 7 May to shareholders on the register on presence provide us with a solid platform 9 April 2010.
In addition the Directors are for growth.
intending paying a special dividend of 11.5p per share on 23 July to shareholders Although market conditions remain on the register on 25 June 2010.
This unsettled we continue to benefit from represents a further cash distribution investment in product development, new of 10.0m.
facilities, expanded service capabilities and improved market penetration.
Corporate governance Our stakeholders rightly expect us to act Quotation activity and the number in a fair and responsible manner both of projects on our internal tracking inside and outside our companies, and system remain at high levels and whilst our commitment to high standards of uncertainty remains on the timing conduct and performance across our of projects, we anticipate continued businesses is as strong as ever.
We keep improvement in infrastructure and Corporate and Social Responsibility energy related markets.
CSR issues high on the agenda at 350 management meetings and have an The board expects to continue to make 338 ongoing process of refreshing all of our progress in 2010. policies and procedures in these areas.
300 This is dealt with comprehensively in 259 the business review under Corporate 250 Governance.
217 200 219 Board Changes 167 Bob Slater joined Rotork in 1989 and Roger Lockwood 150 has served as Group Finance Director Chairman for the last 12 years.
Having aided the 1 March 2010 100 recent successful CEO transition Bob Jan 05 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 has expressed his wish to retire and consequently will be leaving at the end Total Shareholder Return rebased of March.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Bob for his contribution over ROTORK p. l. c. many years to the Groups success and FTSE Industrial Engineering Sector wish him well for the future.
ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 07
