Chairmans statement This has been a good year for SABMiller.
In difficult economic conditions, we have drawn on our strengths, addressed the many opportunities in our markets and produced a creditable set of results.
We continued to invest in the business, with We have continued, for example, to develop capital expenditure during the year totalling our international portfolio of businesses.
some US$2,100 million and acquisitions a The years highlight was the formation of further US$300 million.
Despite this very the MillerCoors joint venture in the US.
significant investment, net debt at the year Having started operations on 1 July 2008, end was lower than the prior year and the MillerCoors is making good progress and is group remains financially strong.
more than meeting its cost-saving targets.
We are also judiciously expanding our In view of this performance, the board has geographic footprint in other parts of the recommended a final dividend of 42 US world where it makes sense to do so.
In the cents per share to be paid to shareholders past year weve acquired one of the larger Meyer Kahn, Chairman on 28 August 2009.
This brings the total breweries in the Ukraine and a beer and dividend for the year to 58 US cents, malt operation in Nigeria, each marking our Dear Shareholder, unchanged from the prior year.
first entry to the country in question.
In the I am pleased to report another robust case of Nigeria, the move takes us into the performance from your company.
We all know Market overview only major African market in which SABMiller that things have been tough this year.
Not While certainly not immune to the current did not previously have a presence.
only did we face softening consumer demand, crisis, beer is a fairly resilient product and we also had to contend with an increase in SABMiller is better placed than many to Investment in existing markets has commodity costs and a strengthening US weather the storm.
Thanks, partly, to our continued with the acquisition, by our dollar.
So its especially pleasing to have long experience of emerging markets, we are associate CR Snow, of three breweries in delivered such creditable results.
used to operating under difficult conditions.
the Anhui, Liaoning and Zhejiang provinces If we look back ten years to our London stock of China.
We have also acquired the Total beverage volumes grew 2% to 260 million market listing, it is worth remembering that the remaining 50% interest in our Vietnamese hectolitres, with reported lager volumes also Asian currency crisis at that time had shaken brewing business and in May 2009 we rising 2% to 210 million hectolitres including investor confidence in emerging markets and acquired the outstanding 28.1% minority acquisitions in Europe, Africa and Asia.
that the outlook was far from encouraging.
interest in our Polish subsidiary, Kompania Without the acquisitions, lager volumes Nevertheless, we prospered and grew and Piwowarska.
Elsewhere we bought the were level with the prior year.
achieved the international expansion that our Vladpivo brewing company in Russia and listing was intended to facilitate.
Since our Bere Azuga in Romania to strengthen our Earnings before interest, tax and London listing in 1999, we have moved from positions in these countries.
We are also amortisation EBITA grew 5% on an organic, 88th to 17th place in the FTSE 100.
Our building new brewing facilities in Russia, constant currency basis.
This underlying market capitalisation has grown from Tanzania, Mozambique and Angola with profit growth is quite an achievement in these US$5,503 million to US$22,415 million as at a brewery recently completed in southern challenging times and shows the operational 31 March 2009 and total shareholder return Sudan.
Further investment has gone into strengths of our businesses, which we have over the period stands at 204% compared sales and marketing and assets such as built over many years, and the power of to minus 12% for the FTSE 100. bottles and fridges.
On a reported basis, however, results were impacted by Ten years on, our geographic spread is With the bulk of these investments the strengthening of the US dollar against proving to be an advantage in that different behind us, we expect to reduce our our major operating currencies.
Reported countries are affected by the crisis at different capital expenditure from its peak of almost EBITA at US$4,129 million was therefore rates and to differing degrees.
So while demand US$2,100 million in the year just ended to flat, and profit before tax decreased 9% in Europe has dropped sharply, countries in US$1,500 million in the current year, to the to US$2,958 million reflecting the impact emerging markets such as Africa and Asia benefit of our cash flow.
We are also reaping of exceptional items and increased net have fared relatively well despite falling back the benefits of steady investment in our finance costs.
from the high one might say unsustainable brands and the development of the beer rates of growth of recent years.
Even in countries badly Despite EBITA being level with the prior year, affected by the recession, the brand equity adjusted earnings per share in US dollars Another of our advantages, as our Chief weve now created enables us to claim a declined by 4% on the prior year, due to a Executive explains more fully on pages 7 to 11, rising share of the total alcohol market while significant increase in net finance costs which is a consistent and robust strategy, effectively also in many cases growing our revenues.
was partly offset by a lower effective tax rate.
Although the strategy continues However, in sterling terms earnings per share to evolve to take account of new conditions, gained 12% and 19% in South African rand.
its essential elements remain unchanged.
4 Chairmans statement SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Share price 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2009 sterling 15 13 11 9 7 04 05 06 07 08 09 SABMiller International brewers index FTSE 100 Source: Thomson Datastream Operational highlights Sustainable development Among our non-executives, we are sorry that Perhaps the most pleasing performance this Whatever the conditions, we will not Maria Ramos has had to step down at the year was in North America where EBITA compromise our commitment to operating request of the South African banking regulator grew 22%.
The new leadership team at more sustainably and benefiting the following her appointment as Chief Executive MillerCoors has moved quickly to bring the communities in which we work.
Although she was only with us for a two businesses together and achieve the other initiatives this year, weve committed few months, we greatly valued her contribution.
cost savings we identified prior to the deal.
ourselves to reducing further the amount In fact these savings are coming through of water we use per litre of lager by 25% With effect from 1 June 2009, Dr Dambisa faster than expected.
The team has delivered over the next six years and to cutting fossil Moyo has been appointed as a new nonoutstanding profit growth through strong fuel emissions per litre of lager by 50% by executive director.
Dambisa is an economist revenue management, cost efficiencies 2020.
To foster local enterprise in emerging and commentator on Africa who has held and the vigorous execution of its strategy.
markets, we have plans to raise the number positions at Goldman Sachs and the World of local farmers from whom we buy our Bank and she will add much value to our There were mixed performances in Latin raw materials from 22,000 at present to deliberations.
Her appointment will also enhance America where organic lager volumes overall 60,000 by 2012. the balance between the independent and grew by 1%.
A combination of cost reductions, the non-independent directors on the board.
strong pricing and a shift to premium The past year has also seen the launch of our products has improved the margin and TalkingAlcohol.
com website which provides In addition to thanking all those who have achieved a 10% increase in reported EBITA.
accurate and balanced information about served on our board this year, I must also responsible consumption.
While the vast express my gratitude to our executives, In Europe, the sharp deterioration in the majority of our customers enjoy alcohol managers and staff who have shown economy has squeezed consumer spending.
responsibly, the small minority of irresponsible tremendous dedication and skill in challenging Nevertheless, we maintained our lager drinkers can cause problems and were circumstances.
We are grateful, too, to our volumes, on an organic basis, and gained working with partners to address the issue.
business partners and to you, our shareholders, share in some of our markets.
After several for your support during the year.
years of double digit growth, however, More details of these and other sustainable reported EBITA in Europe showed a small development initiatives can be found on Outlook fall of 1%.
In summary, the group delivered resilient underlying results, despite the strong Africa performed extremely well, growing Board and executive headwinds that we faced.
Global economic total beverage volumes by around 10% We were delighted this year to welcome conditions and consumer demand weakened organically with notable performances from Norman Adami back to the group as during the year and there remains little Tanzania and Angola.
Sales in Botswana, Managing Director and Chairman of SAB Ltd visibility as to the timing of any recovery.
however, were severely affected by the in South Africa.
Formerly President and CEO In the current year we expect commodity introduction of a new levy on alcohol.
of SABMiller Americas, Norman was obliged cost pressures to continue, given existing to resign in 2007 to attend to urgent family contractual arrangements.
In addition, the In Asia, lager volume growth at CR Snow matters in South Africa.
With these issues currency translation effect of the stronger in China slowed to 4% organically through now resolved, he is able to return to a role US dollar will impact our reported results.
a combination of the weaker economy, the he last held in 2003. poor weather at the start of the year and the However, the group remains confident in earthquake in Sichuan, an important province Normans predecessor in South Africa, its medium-term prospects.
We are taking for the business.
India, with its difficult regulatory Tony van Kralingen, has been appointed appropriate short-term mitigating actions in environment, saw volumes increasing by Director of Supply Chain and Human certain countries to reduce costs.
For reporting purposes we continue to Resources for the SABMiller group.
His new plans have been reviewed and curtailed combine the results for Africa and Asia: on role emphasises our determination to gain where necessary in the light of expected a joint basis reported EBITA was up 13%.
maximum value from our global scale.
economic conditions, but we continue to invest selectively to support growth.
The Finally, volumes in South Africa were slightly Our former Human Resources Director, group remains in a strong financial position, down on the previous year, and the weaker Johann Nel, has retired from the group.
and we are confident that we will continue currency exacerbated increases in commodity Johann has made an exceptional to benefit from the strength of our brands costs.
Despite some strong pricing across contribution over the last seven years and our globally diversified and well balanced lager and soft drinks, both margin and profits and he leaves with our gratitude and portfolio of businesses.
suffered, with reported EBITA down 26%.
Meyer Kahn Chairman SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Chairmans statement 5
