The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 08 Chairmans statement Dear Shareholder Set against a backdrop of a recessionary environment, Sage has produced a robust performance.
The strength of our business model and our large, international, customer base has helped us to navigate through these turbulent 12 months.
Our customers have continued to rely on us as a trusted partner in running their businesses.
The demand for high quality support remains strong and the growth in recurring subscription revenues has compensated for reduced demand for software and software-related services.
However, 245,000 new customers purchased software solutions during the year, demonstrating the value that our products offer to SMEs.
By working closely with our high quality business partners and by supporting customers with locally based services and solutions, we have continued to grow our customer base around the world.
Financial strength More than 70% of the Groups profits are earned outside of the UK and exchange rate movements have had a favourable effect on our reported earnings.
Statutory pre-tax profit rose by 11% to 267.4m, benefiting from a resilient business performance, currency movements and lower financing costs.
We rapidly reduced our cost base during the year to reflect the challenging business environment, but we maintained our investment in R&D at 174.6m, as we continue to invest in our products and customers.
The Group remains highly cash generative, with operating cash flow of 357.6m, representing 112% of EBITA.
With little acquisition activity, net debt fell by 167.4m on a currency neutral basis.
We have a strong balance sheet and, during the year, we renegotiated and extended the term of our 200.0m bank facility converting it to a US$264.0m facility, so that all of our 815.1m facilities now mature in 2011.
Set against a backdrop of a recessionary environment, Sage has produced a robust performance.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 09 Dividend Our reliable cash flows, robust balance sheet and recurring revenue streams provide strong support for our progressive dividend policy, whilst ensuring that the Group can continue to maintain the appropriate levels of organic and acquisition-led investment.
As a result the Board is increasing the full year dividend by 3% to 7.43p per share 2008: 7.21p per share, with a proposed final dividend of 4.93p per share 2008: 4.78p per share.
People This has been a difficult year for our people, as we have had to adjust the business to reflect the tough economic environment.
We reduced headcount by 11% during the year and we thank those employees who have left Sage for their important contribution to the development of our business.
More than any other year, our employees have been remarkable in their steadfast commitment to delivering the very best for our customers during these challenging times.
We thank them for all their dedication and professionalism.
We are proud of our reputation for the quality of our people and we continue to develop programmes to provide opportunities for talent to flourish.
Last year we introduced The Sage Leadership Standard, a set of leadership values which define clearly what we expect from our leaders globally.
We continued to roll out the Standard during 2009 and this is helping to provide a consistent approach in the way our leaders operate.
It is creating a new standard of leadership across Sage, which continues to inspire the 13,400 people working to help our customers and grow our business.
Outlook Whilst demand for our products stabilised in the second half of the year, we are not experiencing a general recovery in our markets.
Thus, we continue to manage our business prudently.
Our large and international customer base, strong business model and robust finances position us favourably for the eventual market upturn.
We have many opportunities to serve the changing needs of our dynamic SME customer base using our expertise and insight into a wide range of industries and markets.
Anthony Hobson Chairman Business review
