Chairmans statement Managing a sustainable business Sir John Egan Chairman I am pleased to report today on a second successive year of More than four years of intensive time and energy has been encouraging progress.
Despite the impact of the current economic invested by this board and the management team putting our environment on consumption and bad debts, and our already organisation back into the positive position our customers, regulators, shareholders and employees deserve.
announced increase in investment in infrastructure renewals, Tony Wray, our Chief Executive, and his team delivered stable group profit before interest, tax and exceptional items.
Thats because we continue Board to deliver on our plans to raise standards and keep down charges Martin Houston stepped down as a non-executive director of Severn through our focus on continuous improvement in all our processes.
Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Limited with effect from 23 January 2009.
I thank him for his contribution to Severn Trent since 2003 I congratulate Tony and all employees on achieving upper quartile and we wish him well for the future.
performance in 14 of our 20 Key Performance Indicators.
I would like to thank our dedicated employees who have embraced our tools and Gordon Fryett, Director of Property at Tesco, has been appointed to the techniques for continuous improvement and risen to the challenge.
boards of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Limited from 1 July 2009.
His experience in managing capital projects and customer Our KPI achievements are being driven by end to end process service will, I believe, enable him to contribute greatly to your board.
design improvements created by good leadership and training.
Audits and high quality two way communications ensure We have reviewed our governance framework to further encourage continuous improvements.
robust board room practices to ensure challenge and delivery.
See page 24 for more details.
Further productivity gains will flow throughout the next five years from continued process improvements supported by better telecoms Outlook technology and IT systems, and with flexible working practices We continue to drive performance improvements across Severn to enable our better trained staff to operate effectively in this new environment.
We have accelerated some of our improvement plans and expect to incur around 20 million of restructuring costs in Now we aim to have the lowest possible water bills in the UK.
The cost 2009 10 which is planned to deliver around 5 million of additional of all Severn Trent water and waste activities is on average around 84p operating cost efficiencies in 2009 10, beyond our previous plans per day, per household, and we hope to hold that over the next five and further cost efficiencies in AMP5.
years to an increase of 4% above inflation, less than 1% per year.
The capital programme is proceeding according to plan.
We continue In addition we will continue to grow Severn Trent Services across the to expect to deliver on our regulatory commitments and anticipate world by operating at the forefront of new technology and services as total capital expenditure UK GAAP, net of grants, contributions and a leading supplier of water and waste water treatment solutions.
other income of 2.6 billion for the AMP4 period.
The three key areas we are focused on are: Group results accelerating our renewable energy programme to deliver greater Group profit from continuing operations before tax, gains losses operational efficiency, enhance our natural hedge to energy costs on financial instruments and exceptional items was 273.5 million and reduce our carbon footprint, 2008: 292.2 million.
Group profit from continuing operations to engage with our supply chain to further our early start before tax was 167.6 million 2008: 192.4 million.
contracting strategy, delivering benefits in the AMP5 investment The board is proposing a final dividend of 41.05p 2008: 41.29p programme, and to be paid on 31 July 2009.
This would give a total dividend for the investments in economically enhancing technology and locations, year of 67.34p per ordinary share, an increase of 2.6%.
principally the construction of the new Severn Trent Centre.
In April 2009 we submitted our Final Business Plan to Ofwat.
Corporate responsibility We believe it is a high quality, holistic and balanced plan that has Corporate responsibility must be at the heart of the way we develop, customers at its heart, is supported by all the key stakeholders and manage and operate Severn Trent for long term sustainable benefit.
will enable a fair and appropriate return for our investors.
The plan proposes a capital programme of 2.6 billion net of efficiencies, We are increasing our focus on water efficiency and reducing our carbon footprint.
This involves improving our own efficient use of grants and contributions at 2007 08 prices, challenging efficiencies water and energy and engaging with our customers and the wider and an assumed weighted average cost of capital of 5%.
community to influence all our behaviours.
We have a target In Severn Trent Services, the market for all three areas of activity of generating 30% of our gross electricity requirements from still provides the opportunity for growth.
We are working to a renewable sources by 2013 and are working on longer term targets focused growth strategy, capitalising on organic and other growth to support our 25 year plan.
opportunities in the downturn economy by building on our brand recognition and reputation, our strong market positions, our In 2008 09 we improved our group performance on our health and safety KPI of lost time incidents per 100,000 hours by 29%.
international scale and our advanced technologies.
The group has a strong liquidity position and is funded for its Closure of regulatory investigations investment and cash flow needs for up to the next two years.
I am pleased to report we finally resolved our legacy issues in July 2008.
4 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
