2 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairmans review Matthew EmmensChairman A year of unprecedented change and enormous opportunity.
Those charged with leading Shire throughout 2009 entered Staying on course in a weak economy with a portfolio that the year fully cognizant of the challenges that lay ahead.
was no longer headlined by ADDERALL XR would require Shire to dig deepto facilitate the kind of transformation one rarely There were, to begin with, the pressures forged by an industry sees in any industry, under any circumstances.
Those of us who confronted by a nearly perfect stormthe worldwide recession: know this companythe breadth of its talent, the depth of its the implications of proposed healthcare reforms: and the commitmentwere not surprised by the results.
In 2009 Shire increasing insistence, on the part of physicians, patients, and did not just maintain its position as the worlds leading branded 1 payers, that the benefits of medicines be wholly quantified.
ADHD company, it also advanced its portfolio of eight growthValue had become the watchword.
The deliberate execution driving products with robust intellectual property protection, of well-made plans would separate those who merely stayed extended its global presence to 28 countries, and, through its afloat from those who set new standards.
Human Genetic Therapies HGT business, proved its capacity to answer to some very pressing patient needs.
At the close Such external pressures for our industry were compounded of 2009, Shire remains on track to meet its aspirational targets of mid-teen digit revenue growth on average between 2009 at Shire by the long-anticipated genericization of ADDERALL XR, the product that had fuelled Shires rise as a leading specialty and 2015. biopharmaceutical company.
Certainly Shire had proactively planned for its post-ADDERALL XR era by bolstering its pipeline Shires product portfolio is young and growing.
It features a number with a new generation of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder of best-in-class medicines: medicines that make a discernible ADHD drugs.
Still, the stakes were high.
VYVANSE, the once-daily ADHD medicine indicated for both children and adults, has surpassed the $1 billion mark in cumulative gross sales since its launch mid-2007.
INTUNIV, launched this past November is a highly promising selective alpha- 1 ELAPRASE, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV, LIALDA MEZAVANT, REPLAGAL, VPRIV and VYVANSE.
2A receptor agonist indicated for once-daily treatment of ADHD.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3 2009 highlights VYVANSE surpassed the $1 billion mark in cumulative gross sales.
ELAPRASE is treating patients in more than 40 countries around the world.
LIALDA has 18% market share of the total US prescriptions for ulcerative colitis.
FOSRENOL is now marketed in 38 countries.
LIALDA, already with 18% market share of the total US in the lives of their patients, and patients more proactively prescriptions for ulcerative colitis, is currently in global Phase 3 managing their own health.
We expect to see an environment, trials for diverticulitis, an indication that has twice the patient in other words, that is ripe for the kind of company that Shire population potential of ulcerative colitis.
We expect to complete continues to becomebest-in-class, highly differentiated, this Phase 3 trial by the end of 2010 with a potential launch in forward thinking, truly innovative, and deeply concerned with early 2012.
FOSRENOL, a phosphate-binding agent used in the the lives of those it serves.
control of hyperphosphataemia in chronic renal failure patients, was our first international product launch, and is now marketed For the past several years, as you will see in this report, in 38 countries.
ELAPRASE, our Hunter syndrome product, Shire has positioned itself to take the right risks in a changing is treating patients in more than 40 countries around the world.
Today it finds itself in the midst of a growth cyclefully VPRIV velaglucerase alfa, to help treat patients diagnosed with supported by a flexible business model and staffed by a team that most common of all lysosomal storage diseases, Gaucher that continues to demonstrate remarkable courage and disease, is now available on treatment protocol in the US and dedication.
Shire isnt done yet, and it does not wish to be.
for compassionate use in the rest of the world: it has also been The transformation continues.
granted Priority Review by the US Food and Drug Administration FDA and the product will be commercialized in the US at the end of February 2010, 18 months ahead of schedule.
The world in which we live and work is in endless flux.
Going forward we expect to see physicians, patients, and payers Matthew Emmens benefiting from the new science of biomarkers and calling for Chairman even demandingfar more specific agents to treat disease.
We expect to see specialist physicians taking a more active role
