Directors report Business review Our group at a glance The group operates through four strategic business segments: Sugar & Agriculture: Retail: Grocery: and Ingredients.
2,579m Retail REVENUE Retail 223m ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT Primark is a major value retail group employing over 27,800 people.
It operates stores in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Spain, the Netherlands, 28% Portugal and Germany.
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL REVENUE Targeted at the fashion-conscious under 35s, Primark offers customers high-quality merchandise at value for money prices.
Primark prides itself on its loyal customer base.
Buying and merchandising teams in Dublin Republic of Ireland and Reading UK travel internationally to source and buy up-to-the-minute fashion items that best re ect each seasons key fashion trends.
Primarks range of departments includes womenswear, lingerie, childrenswear, menswear, footwear, accessories, hosiery and homeware.
Sugar & Agriculture Sugar, Europe British Sugars UK beet sugar factories produce over one million tonnes of sugar annually.
Its Spanish business, Azucarera, produces over 800,000 tonnes of sugar each year.
Sugar, China We have majority interests in five cane sugar mills in Guangxi Province and operate seven beet sugar factories in the north east of the country.
Continuous investment has raised annual sugar capacity to 850,000 tonnes.
Sugar, southern Africa Illovo is Africas largest sugar producer with agricultural and production facilities in six countries.
Illovo grows 5.1 million tonnes of sugar cane itself and its annual sugar production is 1.9 million tonnes.
Agriculture AB Agri sells animal feed to farmers and purchases grain from them.
2,314m It also provides sustainable supply chain solutions to food, drink and biofuel REVENUE producers.
It has facilities in the UK and China and markets products in over 252m 40 countries worldwide.
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT 26% PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL REVENUE 2 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Our Group at a glance Ingredients Yeast and bakery ingredients AB Mauri operates globally in yeast and bakery ingredient production with 48 plants in 27 countries, supplying plant and artisanal bakers and the foodservice and wholesale channels.
It is a technology leader in bread improvers, dough conditioners and bakery mixes.
Speciality ingredients ABF Ingredients focuses on high-value ingredients for food and non-food applications.
It manufactures and markets enzymes, yeast extracts, speciality proteins and lipids.
3,188m REVENUE 191m ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT 35% PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL REVENUE Grocery Hot beverages, sugar and sweeteners Twinings and Ovaltine comprise our global hot beverages business.
We are market leaders in UK sugar with Silver Spoon and Billingtons.
Vegetable oils Mazola is the leader in premium corn oil in the US.
In Mexico, Capullo is a premium canola oil.
Bread, baked goods and cereals We produce Jordans cereals in the UK and leading bakery brands, Kingsmill, Ryvita, and Tip Top in the UK and Australia.
World Foods World Foods comprises our authentic pan-Asian food brands, Pataks and Blue Dragon.
Herbs and spices 989m We are a leading US producer of herbs and spices through the Tones, REVENUE Spice Islands and Durkee brands.
88m Meat ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT In Australia we are a leading supplier of ham, bacon and smallgoods 11% through the Don and KRC brands.
