6 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Chairmans statement After a year of economic turmoil, it is gratifying to report that Smiths Group has emerged relatively unscathed.
A combination of management initiatives, geographically diverse markets and largely defensive businesses has resulted in a resilient performance under truly challenging circumstances.
Donald Brydon Chairman In the 2008 statement, I deliberately sounded a note of caution when The Board is also pleased with the Groups steady progress in looking at the prospects for the year.
However, few people could have environment, health and safety.
These areas are addressed at the top of envisaged the sheer severity of the recession which thankfully now the agenda of every management meeting and business review.
Fortunately, under the management of Philip safety performance has exceeded the tougher targets we set ourselves Bowman, your company had already embarked on a self-help last year.
This is, in part, because we are now monitoring near misses restructuring programme that has gone a long way towards mitigating as well as incidents and therefore can get closer to their root cause.
On the worst effects of the downturn.
Operating in markets with long-term the environment, three-year targets were set in August 2007 to be  helps.
achieved by July 2010 for greenhouse gas emissions, waste disposal Global energy demands show few signs of abating over the long term, and water consumption.
Each of our key indicators shows improvement, and advances in healthcare are still needed to meet the growing needs currently beating our goals.
Our Code of Business Ethics has been of ageing populations.
Innovations in wireless communications emerge revised and strengthened and is now available in all our main operating almost daily.
Since its launch a year ago, almost all staff have now been trained in its 12 core principles.
However, government spending priorities, radically revised in response totheglobalcrisis, .
  It has experienced repeated contract deferrals which have put pressure directors: in particular Peter Jackson, who will retire after the AGM on the order book.
Nonetheless, we remain confident that this sector in November.
I want to thank him for his role in the success of will soon return to long-term growth and that Detection will benefit from Smiths Group over recent years.
The Board has benefited from his its leadership in the roll-out of the next generation of security systems.
I am delighted to welcome a new non-executive director, Anne Quinn, who joined us on 1 August.
I look So amid todays economic and financial uncertainties, our focus remains forward to working with her in the coming years.
The Board takes its firmly on what is within our power to manage or influence.
A corporate corporate governance responsibilities very seriously and undertakes restructuring programme to cut costs and improve performance is on regular evaluations of its performance.
To reinforce this approach, the track towards its savings targets.
We have reorganised into five divisions directors have decided to offer themselves up for re-election on an headquartered close to their markets and overseen by a streamlined annual basis with effect from the 2010 AGM, rather than triennially as corporate office in central London.
A performance-driven culture is current practice.
permeates the entire Smiths Group and I am confident that the early positive impact of the reorganisation will rapidly accelerate when trading The next 12 months will continue to make great demands on us all.
The economic outlook, while less bleak than a year ago, remains extremely challenging.
Pressure on sales and margins is intense.
We However, we have not neglected to prepare for the eventual economic will continue to focus on the restructuring self-help initiatives that are upturn.
Our product offering and geographic reach have been expanded underway, on improving our business systems to drive efficiencies through a number of bolt-on acquisitions, half of them in Asia Pacific.
and improve decision-making, and on consolidating the business Equally, innovation and R&D have been the lifeblood of Smiths for well through targeted acquisitions.
over a century and this remains the case, particularly in Smiths Detection and Smiths Medical.
We will continue to support the launch Overall, IbelievethatPhilip, , deserveourthanks of new products which will in time drive higher margin sales growth.
for what they have achieved during an exceptionally tough year.
Operational improvements across the divisions are firmly on track.
Combined with our performance-driven culture, they will provide a solid foundation to deliver enhanced value to shareholders.
