SOCO International plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairman and Chief Executives Statement From left: Ed Story President and Chief Executive Officer Rui fide Sousa Chairman Overview SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 Financial and Operating Results The 2009 financial statements report the first return to a full year of production operations since 2007, following the sale of the Groups Yemen asset in April 2008.
This resulted in record revenues, operating profits and profit after tax excluding disposals.
The Groups balance sheet strengthened further, ending the year with a cash balance including liquid investments higher than at the beginning of the year.
Moreover, early in 2010 we raised an additional 99.2 million net from a share placing which will, with our existing Dear Shareholders funds and operational cash flows, underwrite the $77.0m SOCO enjoyed a great deal of success in 2009, current exploration and development programmes Cash flows from operating activities delivering record profits on continuing operations, regardless of the number of bonds that may be obtaining government sanctioning of the Groups redeemed in May of 2010. largest development project and ending with record year end cash, cash equivalents and liquid 2009 Operations Review After tax profit of $51.1 million 2008 $30.6 investments balances.
Even with all of this, from a million from continuing operations demonstrates South East Asia news flow perspective, the past year may seem to Vietnam Block 16-1 the impact of a full years earnings from the have been anticlimactic.
However, the Group was Groups two new producing assets in its South During 2009, the 3D seismic over the TGT and the gathering momentum during 2009 towards the TGD fields in Block 16-1 offshore Vietnam was East Asia portfolio.
This was achieved even launch of an exciting exploration campaign in though production from the Ca Ngu Vang CNV reprocessed, yielding encouraging results for both both core areas, Africa and South East Asia.
TGT, which the Vietnamese Government field was curtailed in order to maintain reservoir so, the activity since initiating this programme in pressure prior to the commencement of water sanctioned for development during the year, is September 2009 has been fractional compared targeted to come on stream in mid-2011 at injection.
Total production net to the Companys with the significant portfolio fide-risking due to working interest averaged 6,415 barrels of oil approximately 50,000 BOEPD.
equivalent per day BOEPD from both assets, on activities commenced during 2009 with the par with the 2008 production average over the ordering of long lead items, commencing period from start up of production operations.
fabrication of the unmanned platform for Phase I development and tendering bids for appraisal SOCO has been Cash flows from operating activities of $77.0 drilling.
A follow-up appraisal well to the TGD million 2008 $45.1 million were in excess discovery is expected to be drilled in the second gathering momentum of 2009 capital expenditure of $73.9 million or third quarter of 2010 following Government in 2009 towards an 2008 $217.6 million contributing to a year approval of the Appraisal Area during 2009. end cash, cash equivalent and liquid investments exciting exploration balance of $307.6 million 2008 $303.4 million.
Vietnam Block 9-2 campaign The sixth and final well in the initial CNV This combined with net funds raised of 99.2 million from the share placing in January 2010 development drilling programme was drilled early in 2009.
Production has been temporarily provides the Company with a strong position to The exploration campaign will focus upon new fund its current exploration, appraisal and scaled back in order to maintain adequate targets in Africa.
Reserve growth could also reservoir pressure pending the initiation of water development programmes.
come from the appraisal programme in Vietnam injection following the drilling of an injector well and sidetrack to a current producer in the first where we begin our largest ever development Due to the continuing need to finance current and programme in the Te Giac Trang TGT field and future exploration, appraisal and development half of this year.
Production in 2009 from the drill a promising follow-up well to the 2008 Te projects, the Board of Directors are not CNV field averaged 2,848 BOEPD net to SOCOs Giac Den TGD discovery well.
recommending the payment of a dividend.
SOCO International plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairman and Chief Executives Statement continued Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa DRC Further details can be found in the Annual Report During 2009, the Company continued of the Directors on pages 36 to 39 and in the interpretation of the 360 kilometre 2D seismic Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 47. on the Nganzi Block that was acquired in Thailand 2008, identifying several major structures.
In Outlook Two horizontal wells were drilled on the anticipation of drilling two or three exploration There is little question of the significance of Companys Bualuang field in Thailand in the wells in 2010, the Group began construction the 2010 drilling programme as the Company first half of the year in order to maximise oil of roads, bridges and a base camp to facilitate will fide-risk a substantial portion of its portfolio.
production and minimise water production.
drilling in previously inaccessible areas.
The potential for material reserves upgrades Following this work, SOCO has booked additional cannot be discounted assuming even modest reserves in line with those of the operators SOCO hopes to broaden its portfolio in DRC, drilling success in the exploration and appraisal independent reservoir engineers assessment.
with its application for a licence over Block 5, in programme.
Further development drilling activity is planned the Albertine Graben in eastern DRC, pending a for 2010.
A 3D seismic acquisition covering 384 Presidential Decree and an application submitted square kilometres was completed in the first for a large interior block.
quarter of 2010 to further evaluate the field.
2010 will be an Production from Bualuang in 2009 averaged Angola eventful year 3,567 barrels of oil per day BOPD net to SOCOs Due to recent security incidents in Cabinda North working interest.
the planned 2009 2D and 3D seismic campaign was suspended by the operator of the Block.
The Africa operator currently expects this to resume in the Notwithstanding the risks associated with Republic of Congo Brazzaville first half of 2010. exploration drilling in our sector, we believe we The Company drilled its first two wells in its have taken all of the necessary steps to maximise Africa region in the second half of 2009, both Corporate our success ratio for exploration and appraisal in the Companys Marine XI licence, offshore Share Placing drilling, which has averaged over 60% since our Congo Brazzaville.
The Liyeke Marine 1, a low In January 2010, the Company successfully listing.
In the event that all of the frontier cost wildcat well, targeted the Sendji Formation placed 7,234,347 new ordinary shares of 20 exploration proves unsuccessful, an already but was found to be water saturated and was pence each at a price of 1410 pence per Placing proven oil field in Vietnam could provide subsequently plugged and abandoned.
The Share the Placing Price.
Based on the Placing considerable upside just from the appraisal second Marine XI well, the Viodo Marine 4, Price, the gross proceeds of the Placing were development drilling alone.
was a vertical well appraising the 1986, oil rich, 102.0 million $166.0 million.
The proceeds although structurally complex, discovery.
Two of the placing further reinforce the Groups With our most active drilling programme offering drill stem tests were completed resulting in a balance sheet ahead of a period of significant the most upside potential in terms of adding combined maximum flow rate of approximately expenditure on the TGT development and reserves just ahead for us, 2010 will be an 2,600 BOPD and 7.0 million standard cubic feet exploration in Africa.
Further details can be eventful year.
While past performance is no of gas per day.
The results of the well and found in the Financial Review on pages 22 to guarantee of future success, given SOCOs track associated reprocessed 3D seismic are currently 25 and in Note 32 to the financial statements.
record on delivering development projects on time being incorporated into a model to assess the and to budget and its previous drilling success commerciality of the accumulation.
The Board ratio we are confident that we will be able to As previously reported, Mr John Snyder, a report significant progress during 2010 and in Director since the Companys initial listing on the next annual report.
the London Stock Exchange, retired from the Board at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
In June, SOCO announced the appointment $51.1m of Ambassador Antnio Monteiro as a Non-Executive Director.
Ambassador Monteiro After tax profit was appointed to serve on the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
In August, the Rui fide Sousa Company announced the appointment of Dr Chairman In the first quarter of 2009, SOCO received Mike Watts as a Non-Executive Director.
Dr Congolese Government approval to farm-in Watts was appointed to serve on the Audit as operator to the offshore Marine XIV Block and Nominations Committees.
Ambassador adjacent to the Groups operated Marine XI Block.
Monteiros extensive experience in the countries Subsequently, a 100 square kilometre multiin which SOCO has built its newest core area azimuthal 3D seismic campaign was completed in Africa and Dr Watts extensive experience in and is currently being interpreted ahead of the oil and gas industry has added significant Ed Story SOCOs first Marine XIV well.
and complementary skills to the Board.
President and Chief Executive Officer Business Review SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 Business Review
