04 Introduction | Chairmans Statement We confirmed our commitment to being an integrated, global and innovation-driven prescription-based biopharmaceutical business.
While there has already been much change in the business, the review also highlighted the need to redouble our efforts if we are to stay at the forefront of the sector.
Our plans for the business are outlined in more detail in Davids Review and the Strategy and Performance section.
In recognition of the Groups strong balance sheet, sustainable significant cash flow and the Boards confidence in the strategic direction and long-term prospects for the business, we have adopted a progressive dividend policy, intending to maintain or grow the dividend each year.
In order to ensure that long-term management incentives and shareholder interests remain aligned, we are tabling proposals for a new share-based long-term incentive plan for Chairmans Statement shareholder approval.
This has been developed as part of an overall review of executive remuneration.
Further information Despite the difficult world economic made regulatory submissions based on the about this plan and the review can be found conditions, 2009 was a successful results of these trials.
in the Directors Remuneration Report from year for AstraZeneca.
Our strong page 101 and in the Notice of AGM.
performance and considerable Our strategic focus is on innovation-driven achievement in making a real medicines that are valued by patients and During 2009, Hkan Mogren retired from difference to patient health around payers alike.
We continue to invest in new the Board, having been a Director of the the world meant that our shareholders medicines and we work to protect our Company since its formation in 1999. were also able to benefit.
investments by rigorously defending our Before then, he had served as Chief patent rights and thereby optimising our Executive Officer and a Director of Astra AB Group sales increased by 7% in 2009 to a intellectual property.
To this end, AstraZeneca for more than 10 years.
He brought a wealth total of $32,804 million.
Reported operating will vigorously defend the challenge to the of experience and sound judgement to the profit was $11,543 million, up 24%.
Reported Crestor US substance patent brought by a work of the Board which we valued highly.
earnings per share for the full year were number of generic drug manufacturers when As announced last year, John Patterson $5.19 2008: $4.20.
The Board has the case goes to trial in February 2010. also retired in 2009.
On behalf of their recommended a second interim dividend fellow Directors, I would like to reiterate of $1.71, a 14% increase over the second Worldwide, pharmaceutical industry revenue my thanks to both of them for their service interim dividend awarded in 2008.
This growth, while positive, is slowing.
This is due to the Company.
brings the dividend for the full year to to pressure on healthcare costs, exacerbated $2.30 141.4 pence, SEK 16.84, an by the current economic downturn, as well Once again, the Board would like to place increase of 12% from 2008.
In 2009, as increased competition from generic on record its appreciation of the leadership cash distributions to shareholders medicines.
We believe pressures on costs shown by David Brennan and his team.
are likely to continue, especially in the US.
On behalf of the Board I would also like to thank AstraZeneca employees around the Meeting patient need lies at the heart of Nevertheless, the demand for healthcare world for their contribution to what has been what we do.
In 2009, immediate need was that will drive the industrys future growth a very successful year.
Their contribution, met when our people and technology remains strong, especially from economic which has been the foundation of our past enabled us to develop and be the first to and demographic growth in Emerging success, is also needed more than ever as market an H1N1 influenza swine flu vaccine Markets and the growing number of we address the challenges to come.
Equally, when generic producers patients there who can afford our confident that AstraZeneca has the skills proved unable to supply the market for medicines.
In response to these and capabilities to continue that success Toprol-XL, we successfully rebuilt our supply developments we have continued to drive by harnessing both its own efforts and the chain to fill the void.
We are reshaping efforts of those with whom we work.
our presence in Established Markets to 2009 was also a year in which AstraZeneca ensure we remain competitive and investing science was at the forefront of the industry, in Emerging Markets around the world so ensuring that we are able to meet patient that we can benefit from their growth.
Two of the biggest Louis Schweitzer landmark clinical trials to report in recent We used our assessment of the future Chairman years, the Crestor JUPITER and the Brilinta for the pharmaceutical sector as the basis PLATO trials, engaged academic and clinical for the annual strategy review with communities across the globe.
We have David Brennan and his executive team.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
