Chairmans statement Simon Bentley Acting Non-Executive Chairman In a very challenging market environment, the Groups relentless focus on the basics of retailing has resulted in the delivery of what are very creditable, solid results.
We grew sales in both Retail and Brands divisions, and while we have seen a decline in gross margin and a corresponding drop in underlying EBITDA, that was caused almost entirely by the fall in the value of the pound.
We maintained our position as the UKs leading sports retailer by continuing to implement our back to basics strategy offering the most comprehensive product range, ensuring stock availability, closely controlling costs and making efficiencies where possible.
During the year the Group developed its relationships further with our third party brand suppliers, many who have offices within our head office at Shirebrook.
We improved stock control and sourcing within International Retail.
We were very pleased with the Groups ability to sign an agreement, produce the goods and roll out branded areas in 121 stores in China within a four month period from start to finish.
During the year we opened 27 stores in the UK excluding Northern Ireland, nine stores in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland through Heatons, and seven stores in Europe: including our first stores in Cyprus.
The Group continued to consolidate the Brands division management at Shirebrook.
Licensing remains the key driver of growth within the division, and we signed 41 new licence deals during the year.
The Board has decided not to recommend the payment of a final dividend this year as we believe reducing debt should be our priority.
We will continue to keep this under review.
our strateGy for Growth We have established an excellent platform for growth, which we will build on with our proposed EBITDA related share bonus scheme, of which there are more details on page 24.
Our priorities going forward are to: Continue to strengthen our position in our core UK market Continue to develop our international store portfolio Maintain our brand market leading positions Reduce debt with a target of achieving below 400m in the 2009-10 financial year Finally I wish to pay tribute to the hard work of all our people, from my colleagues on the Board to our people in the stores, and thank them for all their endeavours.
simon Bentley Acting Non-Executive Chairman 16 July 2009 2 Chairmans Statement
