Scottish and Southern Energy 01 Annual Report 2009 Chairmans Introduction At a time of financial, economic and energy market turmoil, a companys ability to deliver profit and dividend growth in a responsible way has never been more important.
In 2008 09, SSE delivered a 2.0% increase near Loch Ness, being a particularly Report in adjusted profit before tax and is significant accomplishment.
This should be This Annual Report describes in detail SSEs recommending a 9.1% increase in the followed during 2009 10 by the completion financial and operational performance full-year dividend per share payable to of Marchwood, which will be one of the in 2008 09 and priorities for 2009 10 and shareholders.
This means that since it was most efficient gas-fired power stations beyond.
It also sets out SSEs approach formed, SSE has achieved 10 successive in the UK.
Major infrastructure projects to the vital issues of risk management, years of increasing profits and dividend.
always present challenges, but I am corporate governance and remuneration confident that SSEs growing capability all in the context of its strategy, purpose and No Frills in this area will stand the company in values.
SSE believes it is not an exercise 2008 09 was a tough year, dominated in good stead in the years to come.
in box-ticking, but a balanced portrayal the first half by very high wholesale prices of the business.
I would be very happy for electricity and gas.
Throughout, SSE Purpose to hear from any shareholder who has managed its business in its usual no-frills In total, SSE is planning to invest around suggestions for improving the Annual way.
That means delivering sector-leading 6.7bn in the five years between 2008 Report in 2010. service to energy supply and electricity and 2013.
This investment is geared to distribution customers, dealing with the fulfilling SSEs core purpose, which is Future difficult operational issues that arise to provide the energy people need in a Many changes are likely to take place at power stations from time to time and reliable and sustainable way.
SSE has in energy production, distribution and undertaking a significant programme of two types of customer those to whom consumption in the next decade.
With investment in energy assets of crucial it supplies energy and related services such a strong team in place throughout importance in the UK and Ireland.
within competitive markets and those SSE, however, I am very confident about to whom it delivers energy through the future.
The organisation is built for the Strategy  regional networks long term, and has the strategy, purpose, In the current environment, SSEs strategy and its commitment to delivering bestvalues and people to deliver sustained operating and investing in a balanced in-sector service applies across the board.
success in the coming years.
range of regulated and non-regulated energy businesses is straightforward Values Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman and has obvious benefits.
It supports Service is part of the SSE SET of SSEs fundamental commitment to core values Safety, Service, Efficiency, maintaining annual real dividend growth, Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork.
with the next step being the increase of Applying them has resulted in SSE at least 4% more than inflation targeted doubling the regulated asset value of its for 2009 10. networks, the capacity of its generation portfolio, the number of energy supply Investment customers and the dividend per share Dividend growth is supported by in seven years.
They will continue to be investment.
Securing future supplies the mainstay of the company.
and tackling climate change are now the twin goals of energy policy in the UK, People Ireland and throughout the European The SSE team now numbering more Union, and our programme of investment than 18,500 people works together in continues to reflect this.
As a result, our an outstanding way and it is a privilege portfolio of assets is growing, with the for the non-Executive Directors, including completion during 2008 09 of the largeour new colleague Thomas Andersen, scale hydro electric scheme at Glendoe, and me to be associated with them.
