This will make a total dividend Chairmans statement of 9.0 pence per ordinary share 2008: 7.6 pence, an increase of 18.4 per cent.
This dividend is covered three times by earnings and is underpinned by another good year of cash flow.
Our strategy of investing in our core brands of Durex Board of Directors and Scholl and expanding internationally, whilst tightly Peter Johnson joined the Board as a Non-Executive controlling costs, continues to move the Company Director on 1 October 2008.
He has huge experience of forwards.
This has been another year of outperformance running international businesses and has immediately against our stated targets, despite the challenging made a positive contribution to the Boards deliberations.
We see further opportunities Anna Catalano stepped down as a Non-Executive Director for growth, both organically, through Durex and Scholl and on 11 November 2008.
I would like to thank Anna for her from our acquisitions, particularly in Russia and the CIS.
efforts and contribution during her time on the Board.
We have benefited from the weakness of Sterling Outlook which has enhanced our foreign earnings, but have still Whilst the outlook remains challenging, the new financial achieved good organic growth.
Underlying sales growth was year has begun in line with our expectations.
By growing 6.4 per cent 2008: 6.9 per cent with growth in each of the sales of our brands through innovation, exploiting the three major categories, Durex, Scholl Footcare and Scholl opportunities created by our acquisitions and continuing Footwear.
Operating profit growth again beat our double to control our costs, we are aiming at a target of growing digit growth target, increasing by 31.4 per cent before oneearnings per share by at least 50% over the next three off charges in the prior year 2008: 25.4 per cent.
We have a strong balance sheet and per share grew by 35.9 per cent to 28.0 pence.
an experienced management team to take advantage of Dividends opportunities around the world.
The Directors recommend an increase in the final The achievements of the last year have been dividend of 20.8 per cent to 6.4 pence per ordinary possible only through the continuing considerable hard share, which, subject to shareholder approval at the work and commitment of our employees.
On behalf of Annual General Meeting AGM on 23 July 2009, will the Board, I would like to thank them.
be paid on 3 September 2009 to shareholders on the growing sales, increasing earnings, generating cash Chief Executives review Strong sales growth across Durex and Scholl, improvements to manufacturing facilities and the supply chain, and key acquisitions designed to strengthen our business this year has again seen SSL build on its past performance despite difficult trading conditions, as Chief Executive Garry Watts explains.
people are always going to have sex and walk 06 07 Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2009 GARRY WATTS
