As always, we remain open-minded Profit before tax and exceptional items with regard to the launch of new amounted to 18.0m 2008: 56.0m, ventures, continuing to back our own a reduction of 67.9%, although this entrepreneurial talent and utilise the was in line with both the Boards established minority-stakes model and market expectations, once again where appropriate, in order to expand reflecting the resilience and quality beyond our existing bases in the UK, within the Groups management continental Europe, USA, Asia-Pacific teams at all levels.
This result was and the Middle East, as we move into particularly commendable, given 2010 and beyond.
the reduction in headcount and Like 2009, 2010 will be an extremely restructuring of brands which took challenging year as we invest place in the year.
in our business in order to take In my fifth, and sadly final, Annual Our net cash balance at the yearfull advantage of any economic Report as Chairman, I am very pleased end, including term investments, improvements, when they occur.
to say that, given the economic stood at 48.5m 2008: 24.6m, Nevertheless we take confidence uncertainty which continued while we also further reduced our from the Groups long track record throughout 2009, the Group was able average days sales outstanding from of success to date and look forward to achieve a very good set of results, 43 days in 2008 to 37 days in 2009. to seeing the achievements of this building on the strengths of our Along with our improved Enterprise year acting as a platform for further strategy, business model and market Risk Management ERM processes, progress as we move forward.
This meant that, despite which we continue to roll out across challenging market conditions, we The Board has declared a second our business, these are measures were able to find areas of growth in interim dividend of 8.0p per share in which clearly demonstrate our solid order to benefit our stakeholders.
place of the final dividend, bringing stewardship and which position the In this respect I would like to take the total dividend for the year to 12.0p Group exceptionally well as we begin the opportunity to thank all those per share 2008: 12.0p.
The second to see some very early signs of growth shareholders who have stuck with the interim dividend will be paid on 31 in certain markets and sectors.
Company through these more recent March 2010 to those shareholders on difficult times, many of whom are Our tried and tested strategy the register as at 26 February 2010. employees.
remains primarily to focus on This follows the interim dividend of pursuing organic growth, through 4.0p 2008: 4.0p per share declared While our primary business focus continued development of the earlier in the year and paid on 4 in the year was to consolidate, we Groups well-established Information, December 2009.
A detailed review have also pursued niche growth Communication and Technology of our trading and results is provided opportunities wherever possible.
This ICT staffing business, while also within the Chief Executive Officers has naturally led to an even more increasing the Groups revenues from and Chief Financial Officers Reviews.
diversified business, both in terms other sectors and countries.
Our During the year, we have also of geographic and sector spread, business model continues to prioritise continued to improve our reporting which will enable us to optimise our high quality over high volume and on Remuneration, Governance and performance as the market improves.
seeks to optimise the superior Corporate Social Responsibility In fact, our non-UK gross profit now margins we consistently achieve as CSR issues, wherever we can, to represents 55% of the Groups gross a consequence of this approach.
The accommodate best practice and profit 2008: 45%.
multi-brand strategy we operate and investor requirements.
In particular, As a result of the continued global our highly diversified client base will, our CSR Report illustrates how we uncertainty, revenue for the year as ever, be crucial in achieving this have further embedded our CSR decreased by 17.8% to 519.4m 2008: goal and we believe that all SThree strategy within the business and we 631.5m, while gross profit net fee businesses have scope for significant will continue to expand these areas as income for the year decreased by further growth.
SThree plc 3 Chairmans Statement continued Report & Accounts 2009 The SThree business is built on an absolute focus on delivering high quality and timely permanent and contract specialist staffing services to our clients.
It remains therefore, first and foremost a people business and it is only as a direct result of the talent and dedication of our people that we are able to continue to post such resilient results.
At the year end the Group employed a total of 1,597 people worldwide and, although this number decreased from 2,274 at the prior year end, we have a clear strategy to grow this significantly over the next five years, particularly outside the UK.
I would therefore like to thank all our employees across the world once again for their contribution during the year.
Many of them have been with the Group from its inception in 1986.
Some of these individuals are featured in the front half of this Annual Report, which shows highlights from the Groups 2009 annual management conference.
As mentioned earlier, this is sadly my final statement as Chairman and the Board is well advanced in recruiting a successor.
It has been a great privilege to have chaired the Company for the past 10 years and to have worked with the Executive team and the Board in creating a highly successful and diversified international Group.
While our business will ultimately depend on the overall strength of the worldwide economy, we believe that our prospects for further growth and success remain excellent and while we enter the new-year with a realistic view of what lies ahead, we have great confidence in the quality of the business and the opportunities to be taken.
Sir Anthony Cleaver CHAIRMAN 29 January 2010 SThree plc 4
