03 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Chairmans statement Net debt increased from 145.0 million to 170.2 million.
Much of this increase followed considerable investment in new capacity with facilities in Ireland, China and the UK.
However, 14.3 million of this increase is due to weak Sterling which has caused the Euro denominated debt to appear higher when translated into Sterling.
Debt remains well within the levels of our bank facilities and covenants have been comfortably met.
Furthermore having completed our investments, new capital expenditure plans should naturally reduce during the new financial year.
One of our objectives for the forthcoming year is to reduce the overall level of debt within the Group.
EPS and Dividend Underlying adjusted earnings per share before amortisation of acquired intangibles and non-recurring items were 37.1p, an increase of 4.6%.
After taking account of amortisation of acquired intangibles and This financial year has been one of the most challenging non-recurring items basic earnings per share were years for Synergy Health faced with an unstable economic 23.5p, a reduction of 16.9%.
The interim dividend and trading environment which has left demand largely was increased by 20% to 4.2 pence and the Board is unaffected but has impacted our cost base.
As a result of proposing a final dividend of 6.8 pence, making a total these circumstances we have not made the progress that dividend of 11.0 pence, an increase of 8.9% reflecting we would normally expect in terms of underlying earnings.
the Boards ongoing confidence in the business.
Our management team has worked swiftly to meet these If approved, the final dividend will be paid on challenges by reducing costs and addressing the core 6 October 2009 to shareholders on the register at trading issues, and we are now keen to draw a line under 11 September 2009. this year with every expectation that Synergy is well positioned in the new financial year and beyond.
Employees Group revenues increased by 21.8% to This has been a testing year for our workforce, who have 274.1 million, with most business units continuing to reacted very positively to the challenges presented and have grow in line with expectations.
The indications are that once again made a strong contribution.
In previous reports most of our markets remain largely unaffected by the the Board set out its desire to increase investment in global recession, with healthcare spending remaining training for staff and management development programmes, firm.
The growth was particularly strong in the Asian including the establishment of an international graduate region and in the UK growth continued in the recruitment programme.
I am pleased that we have made Decontamination services business and the linen progress in these areas over the last twelve months despite management business unit within Healthcare solutions.
the emphasis on cost management.
On behalf of the Our forward order book has increased to 850 million Board, I would like to thank all of our employees for their up from 800 million at the same point last year.
continued dedication and commitment to delivering high A 1.6% decline in operating margins was mainly quality services to our customers.
caused by a rapid escalation of energy and commodity Listing on the London Stock Exchange costs together with one off start-up costs incurred on new In the first half of the year the Group reached an important contracts in the Decontamination services business.
Both milestone in its development when it moved from AIM to of these issues were largely dealt with during the second the Official List.
Whilst these remain challenging times half of the year with Decontamination margins in for financial markets, we believe that the move provides particular fully restored and energy costs beginning to further assurance to shareholders that the Board takes reduce.
The positive impact from these two improvements its corporate governance responsibilities seriously and was muted by weak Sterling, which reduced margins in remains committed to developing a strong international the Healthcare solutions business.
We are taking steps business, in its chosen markets and areas of expertise.
to correct Healthcare solutions margins through price increases whilst exiting from certain low margin business Outlook lines as part of a wider objective to rationalise the range The global market for healthcare remains positive despite of service offerings and products.
the current economic difficulties and we remain confident To aid the restoration of margins the Board has that the underlying demographic trends, regulations and placed increased emphasis on reducing the Groups cost the healthcare commitments of many governments, most base and managing its cash.
A restructuring programme notably in Asia and other fast-growing regions, will was implemented during the year, which included the continue to expand the market for the Groups services.
closure of three linen management sites: one UK site, Whilst this has been a challenging year, we continue which capitalised on our significant investment in new to have confidence in the business model and having capacity in Dunstable, and two in the Netherlands.
taken a number of corrective actions, we are confident Consequently the Group incurred a non-recurring that Synergy will prosper in the years ahead.
We shall restructuring charge of 2.9 million together with an shortly commence business for the first time in China additional 1.1 million relating to the costs of moving and we shall also be opening additional capacity in to the London Stock Exchange Official List from AIM Europe, including the UK.
The focus will be to ensure and professional costs associated with the Dunstable that we drive the expected returns from these new insurance claim.
The restructuring actions should result facilities, whilst improving the quality of the overall in annualised savings of 1.5 million and give us business.
In short, the business is back on track and confidence that margins will be restored by the autumn.
I am pleased to report that the business is performing Profit before tax, amortisation of acquired intangibles in line with the Boards expectations.
and non-recurring items was up by 4.8% to 26.1 million and profit after tax, on the same basis, increased 5.4% to 20.0 million.
After taking account of the amortisation of acquired intangibles and non-recurring items, profit before tax decreased from 18.9 million Stephen G Wilson to 16.3 million and profit after tax decreased on the same basis from 15.1 million to 12.7 million.
