0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 12 6 09 16:24 Page 06 Overview of the year Chairmans statement Balance sheet management has been and continues to be a top priority.
Sir David Lees Results Exchange translation increased ratings.
The full year dividend is Tate & Lyle performed soundly profit before tax by 49 million covered 1.7 times by earnings despite an economic environment compared to the prior year.
The from continuing operations before that grew increasingly challenging stronger US dollar contributed exceptional items and amortisation as the year progressed.
Balance 83% of this increase, although it of acquired intangible assets.
sheet management has been and also reduced the competitiveness The proposed final dividend will be continues to be a top priority.
At of products from our US due and payable on 31 July 2009, 31 March 2009 undrawn committed ingredients business in overseas subject to shareholder approval, bank facilities amounted to more markets, particularly Mexico to all shareholders on the Register than 500 million, and, including and South America.
of Members at 3 July 2009. immediately available cash resources, our liquidity headroom Net debt increased by 190 million The Board rises to approximately 750 million.
Before the effects There have been significant We remain comfortably within our of exchange, net debt decreased changes on the Board since banking covenants.
The impact of the last AGM.
Tim Lodge was exchange movements during the appointed Group Finance Director Sales for the year ended 31 March year, which increased debt by in December 2008 following a 2009 were 3,553 million, 24% 378 million, was due principally short period as Acting Group higher 8% in constant currency to the weakness of sterling Finance Director.
Tim has worked than the prior year.
Profit before tax, against the US dollar.
for Tate & Lyle for over 20 years adjusted to exclude exceptional and has held a variety of senior items and amortisation of acquired Dividend operational and financial roles.
intangible assets at 247 million The Board is recommending a His comprehensive knowledge was 2% lower 18% in constant maintained final dividend of 16.1p, and understanding of our business currency than the prior year, and making a full year dividend of is a considerable asset.
adjusted diluted earnings per 22.9p per share, an increase of share at 38.0p were 10% higher 1.3% over the prior year.
In reaching Last year the Board agreed a 8% lower in constant currency.
this decision, the Board was mindful succession plan to address the of the need to at least maintain the anticipated retirements of both Companys investment-grade credit Iain Ferguson and myself.
06 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 12 6 09 16:24 Page 07 In November 2008 we announced In the second half of the 2010 that Sir Peter Gershon had been Board allocation of time financial year, our performance Year ended 31 March 2009 appointed as a non-executive will also be influenced by pricing in director of the Company from the EU sugar operations following Governance Strategy 1 February 2009, and that he would 8% the final institutional price reduction Operations 42% succeed me as Chairman by the on 1 October 2009.
We expect 16% end of the 2009 calendar year.
this to generate improved margins.
Sir Peters biographical details are Of likely greater influence will be set out on page 60 of this annual the timing of the recovery in ethanol report.
I am delighted that Sir Peter margins and the outcome of the has joined the Board and we are Finance Risk 2010 calendar year US sweetener 29% working closely together as we pricing round.
Capital expenditure transition the chairmanship.
and investment 5% Tate & Lyles inherent ability to Sir Peters appointment as generate strong cash flows, assisted Chairman-elect was a necessary by the ending of our major capital precursor to the recruitment of a During the year the Board carried expenditure programme, will help new Chief Executive to succeed out its annual evaluation of the drive a stronger balance sheet in Iain Ferguson.
In May 2009 we effectiveness of the Board.
By delivering this, announced that Javed Ahmed used an independent facilitator for and continuing to take decisive and would take over from Iain later this the previous years evaluation, the timely actions where necessary, year.
Javed is currently Executive 2009 evaluation was carried out Tate & Lyle will emerge a leaner, Vice President, Europe for Reckitt by myself.
The evaluation involved stronger and more flexible business, Benckiser having held a number of one-to-one performance evaluation well-positioned to benefit from senior leadership roles within that meetings with each director and the economic recovery as and group over the last 17 years in both the Company Secretary.
He themes and comments arising from started his career with Procter & these meetings were presented to Gamble before spending five years the Board for discussion and the Sir David Lees with Bain & Co working in both recommendations made are being Chairman London and Boston.
As is 27 May 2009 invariably the case, the exercise Iain Ferguson joined Tate & Lyle has proved rewarding.
He has brought This will be my last Chairmans considerable change to Tate & Lyle Outlook statement before I hand on to in particular with regard to the The continuing global recession, Sir Peter.
Tate & Lyle is a great implementation of our value added and its uncertain impact on company that has existed for over strategy, the reduction in the customer demand, makes it 100 years.
Corporate longevity is Groups exposure to risks in our difficult to predict with confidence only possible through an endless commodities businesses and, more the outlook for the year ending process of regeneration which, inter recently, in the re-organisation of 31 March 2010. alia, involves responding to the the Groups senior management changing needs of customers and structure.
The Board is greatly In the near term, the actual level reliance on the integrity and loyalty appreciative of his contribution.
of customer demand and net of employees.
Continuing to follow corn costs will be key factors these principles should ensure a Governance in determining our performance.
successful future for Tate & Lyle.
The chart above shows the time Following destocking at the end of spent by the Board at its meetings the 2008 calendar year, order levels in the year ended 31 March 2009 from food and beverage customers allocated between various appear to have stabilised, although responsibilities.
While the Board at lower levels than the prior year.
continues to spend the largest Demand for industrial starches amount of its time on strategy remains weak.
42%, this was 9% less than last year as the increasingly challenging economic environment led to the Board spending more time on operations, finance and risk management.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 07 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
