qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 08:35 Page 4 4 Directors Report: Business Review Chairmans Statement A year of stabilisation After an exceptionally challenging year in 2008, 2009 has delivered greater stability.
The Group has taken decisive action to strengthen its financial position over the course of the year.
As reported in last years Annual Report and Accounts, we reached agreement with all of our debt providers to amend our debt facilities in April 2009.
We subsequently raised 510m of new equity, net of expenses, in June 2009 with the proceeds being used to reduce the level of the Companys debt.
The UK housing market has delivered a better performance in 2009 than it did in 2008, with the Nationwide House Price Index recording an increase in house prices of 5.9% for the year as a whole.
Norman Askew Affordability is now much better for first Chairman time buyers and industry volumes are After an exceptionally increasing gradually from very low levels.
challenging year Although mortgage availability remains at very low levels there have been signs of in 2008, we have the situation easing over recent months.
taken decisive After a weak first quarter of 2009, the US housing market has shown continued action in 2009 stability.
The sharp price declines seen to strengthen since late 2005 have resulted in record levels of affordability in our US markets the Groups and the number of months of supply of both new and existing homes continues financial position.
The more robust economic conditions in Canada are persisting and this is reflected in a stronger housing market.
The housing market in Spain remains weak and the continuing strength of the Euro against Sterling over the course of the year has depressed demand from UK purchasers for second homes in Spain.
2009 performance The difficult operating environment is clearly reflected in the results for the year.
Taylor Wimpeys continuing operations have generated a loss before exceptional items and tax of 96.1 million 2008 loss: 74.7 million.
Pre-tax exceptional items for the year total 603.8 million 2008: 1,895.0 million and primarily relate to reviews of the Shareholder information carrying value of our land and work in progress.
As a result, Taylor Wimpey Full details of the facilities available reported a loss before tax from continuing to shareholders can be found on operations of 699.9 million 2008 loss: page 112 of this Annual Report 1,969.7 million.
com Investor Relations  For more information see page 112 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 01-p05 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 08:35 Page 5 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 5 Business Review Governance Statements Review of capital requirements Our people Electronic communications Having agreed to amend our debt facilities The more stable market conditions with all our debt providers in April 2009, have resulted in a more stable operating Taylor Wimpey makes its Annual the Company launched a Placing and environment for our people during 2009, Report available electronically to those Open Offer on 8 May 2009.
Following particularly in the UK where we carried shareholders who have not requested approval from shareholders at a General out a significant restructuring during 2008. a paper version.
This has three key Meeting on 27 May, a total of approximately However, we recognise that 2009 has benets: 2.13 billion new Ordinary Shares were been another challenging year across A significant reduction in printing issued at a price of 25 pence each to all parts of our business and the Board and postage costs, without reducing raise 510 million net of expenses.
would like to record its thanks for the the level of information available: ongoing dedication and professionalism Whilst we recognise the concerns raised of our employees.
Faster access to information: and by some shareholders regarding the mechanics of the process employed, Reducing the amount of resources Board changes given the uncertain nature of the financial consumed, such as paper, and Sheryl Palmer, the President and Chief markets at the time, we remain convinced lessening the impact of printing Executive of our North American business, that this was the best way to secure an and mailing activities on was appointed to the Board on 5 August enhanced financial platform from which the environment.
Sheryl has led our North American to deliver value for shareholders over business since August 2007 and had The Company also encourages the medium term.
previously held a number of senior shareholders to elect to receive positions within the US housebuilding notification of the availability of Dividends industry.
In addition, Rob Rowley joined Company documentation by means Although market conditions improved in the Board on 1 January 2010 as an of an e-mail.
Shareholders can sign 2009, the Board did not feel it appropriate Independent Non Executive Director and up for this facility by logging onto to propose an interim dividend as a result has been appointed as Chairman of the our Web site.
of the ongoing uncertainty in the wider Audit Committee.
I would like to take this economy.
Given that prospects for opportunity to formally welcome both Visit our Web site the wider economy remain uncertain, www.
com InvestorRelations Shareholder Sheryl and Rob to the Board.
Information  we are not proposing a final dividend for 2009 2008 total dividend: nil.
Mike Davies stood down as a Non Executive Director on 1 September 2009, We will review our dividend policy in having been a Director of the Company the light of prevailing market conditions since October 2003.
In addition, in the future.
David Williams, who was originally appointed as a Non Executive Director Corporate governance of George Wimpey Plc in May 2001, will Strong corporate governance is, if anything, be standing down on 31 March 2010. even more essential in challenging market On behalf of the Board, I would like to conditions.
A full report on our corporate record my gratitude to Mike and David governance activities can be found on for their outstanding contributions.
As announced on 4 December 2009, For more information I intend to stand down from the Board see pages 34 to 40 no later than December 2010.
Since being Corporate responsibility appointed as Chairman of the Company We believe that corporate responsibility in July 2003 there has been substantial is an essential part of good governance change in the industry and the wider and makes sound business sense, economy and I now feel that it is the as well as being crucial for risk right time to appoint a new Chairman and opportunity management.
to oversee the next chapter in the Companys history.
Details of our approach to corporate responsibility can be found on pages 25 to 27, as well as in our Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our Web site.
For more information see pages 25 to 27 Norman Askew Chairman Visit our Web site www.
