Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 08 Business and financial review Chairmans Statement john hughes chAirmAN Since its IPO in 2007, European data centre industry TelecityGroup plc 'TelecityGroup' in its approach to energy or the 'Group' has become management.
It implemented firmly established as one of the a range of measures to enhance UKs best performing public its energy efficiency during companies and as an industry 2009 and was the first data leader in its segment of the centre provider to implement European digital economy.
the EU Code of Conduct for Data Centres in all of its sites.
I am pleased to report to you as Chairman of the Group, TelecityGroups success has after another excellent year been driven by the hard work in 2009.
TelecityGroups and dedication of its employees.
financial performance has I would like to thank them all been outstanding, with the for their efforts.
"I would also achievement of EBITDA like to thank Ian Nolan and growth of 58.1% and adjusted Sergei Riabtsov, both of whom "" TelecityGroups financial diluted EPS growth of 107.7%."
stepped down as Non-Executive Directors in 2009, for the performance has been The Group also made significant extremely valuable contributions outstanding, with the investments in demand-led new that they made to the Group capacity across its European over many years.
They both achievement of EBITDA markets in order to lay secure have the best wishes of the foundations for future growth.
"growth of 58.1% and I anticipate that this investment will enable the Group to remain The Board is in the process adjusted diluted earnings at the heart of the digital of recruiting an additional economy in Europe and create Independent Non-Executive per share growth of 107.7%. """
Following this Furthermore, we have secured appointment, and in accordance financing in order to facilitate with our commitment at the time a further round of demand of the Groups IPO, the Board driven capacity expansion.
will then be in full compliance with the Combined Code on In addition to being focused Corporate Governance.
on value creating growth, TelecityGroup continues to recognise that environmental responsibility is an important concern for stakeholders.
"TelecityGroup is leading the John Hughes Chairman 9 February 2010 "" TElEcITygroup haS BEcoME firmly established as an industry leader In ITS SEgMEnT of ThE EuropEan dIgITal EconoMy. """
The chairmans Statement forms part of, and should be read in conjunction with the Directors' report set out on pages 32 to 34.
