B BU US SIIN NE ES SS S CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am delighted to report a further year of significant achievement for the Company, in which we have seen strong growth in turnover, profitability and earnings per share.
RESULTS Pre-tax profits increased by 34% to 22.5m 2008: 16.8m on group turnover up by 49% to 278.3m 2008: 186.5m.
This strong financial performance has been driven by the rapid growth in the number of customers using our services during the course of the year.
Gross margins during the year fell from 19.3% to 18.6%, in line with management expectations, primarily reflecting the higher proportion of our business now represented by supplying gas and electricity, where the margins are considerably lower than from selling telephony and broadband services.
Earnings per share increased by 37% during the year to 24.2p 2008:17.7p and we are recommending a final dividend of 12.5p.
This makes a total dividend of 17.5p 2008:14.0p, representing an increase of 25% over last year.
The rate at which new customers have been signing up to become members of the Utility Warehouse Discount Club has been gathering pace steadily throughout the year.
This has been driven by a combination of record numbers of new Distributors joining the business almost 4,000 in the last quarter alone, growing confidence in the value of our services and the quality of customer service we provide, and an economic climate in which potential customers are increasingly looking for credible ways to reduce their costs.
Residential Club membership increased by over 40% during the year to 222,705 2008: 158,972 and our Business Club membership grew by almost 70% during the year to 16,163 2008: 9,537 : together, these clubs trading under the Utility Warehouse brand now account for 85% 2008: 77% of our total customer base.
We are particularly encouraged by the accelerating rate of growth in the number of services we are providing, which reached 794,118 2008: 591,981 by the year end an increase of more than 202,000 services during the year.
Of this total, 69,692 were added during the last quarter of the year, representing an annualised growth rate of over 38%.
We continue to invest significant resources in improving our UK-based customer service team, the effectiveness of which is clearly demonstrated by the various awards we received from Which?
magazine over the course of the year.
Churn has increased slightly from around 1.8% per month to 2% per month largely due to the faster organic growth we have been experiencing, and average spend per customer has grown to 1,057 2008:824.
Oxford Power Holdings Opus, in which we maintain a 20% stake, continues to produce satisfactory results.
Our share of their profits was fractionally lower than last year at 0.89m 2008: 0.94m in what proved to be a very difficult year for other independent resellers of commercial electricity, which saw their two principal competitors Bizz Energy and E4B both going into administration.
Opuss solid performance demonstrates the resilience of their business model and the strength and experience of their management team.
International Power Holdings PLC, which currently own a 30% stake in the business the remaining 50% is held by management, has a call option under which it can acquire the remaining 70%.
This option is exercisable during a 30 day window beginning on the date that Opus completes its audit for the year to 31 March 2009, which is expected to occur shortly.
The formula under which this option can be exercised places a value of approximately 15m on our stake in this business.
7 7 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Year-end net cash balances fell by 4.9m to 25.4m 2008: 30.3m.
This reduction reflects the significant growth in our energy business and the impact of an extremely cold winter which, combined with higher retail energy prices, has increased Budget Plan debtors by 14.1m to 23.2m at the year-end, and the cost of purchasing and refurbishing our new freehold headquarters office building for around 10m.
The overall cash outflow was partially offset by issuing 1.5m shares from Treasury in February, which raised 4.7m.
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Our Distributors have become increasingly confident in the overall strength of our customer proposition, which combines convenience, value and a consistently high quality of customer service: this has resulted in a substantial increase in activity.
We have seen a net increase of around 7,500 Distributors over the year 2008: net increase of 3,000, taking the total number of Distributors to around 27,100 2008:19,600 : this represents an increase of over 38% during the year, most of which took place during the second half and provides a strong indication of the level of customer gathering activity that can be expected during the first half of the current year.
Our Distributor numbers include approximately 1,000 Community Fundraisers, a relatively new business opportunity introduced in October 2007, which enables local organisations e. g. schools, sports clubs, religious bodies and charities to raise funds by promoting the benefits of using our services within their communities.
Our IT systems have been designed to manage a significantly larger number of customers than are currently using our services, and the recent purchase of a substantial freehold office building gives us the additional physical space we will need to support our anticipated future growth over the next five years.
This means we have the potential to benefit from substantial economies of scale as the number of services we provide continues to grow.
The achievement of these economies of scale, and maintaining our current growth trajectory, remains our key business priority over the next few years.
Last autumn we introduced full colour billing, enabling us to improve the clarity of the information provided to customers, highlighting the various savings and membership benefits they are receiving, and also giving us the opportunity to incorporate more effective marketing messages each month.
We also launched a pre-payment MasterCard CashBack Card as an important new customer acquisition and retention tool.
This gives our members the opportunity to save an additional 5% on their shopping at a wide range of participating retailers, which they receive as a credit on their next monthly bill from us.
This valuable additional membership benefit has been well received, and customers using their new cards are achieving typical savings of 15%-30% on the cost of their utilities each month.
We have also enhanced our customer proposition with the introduction of Free Global Calls where customers with multiple services can benefit from free calls at any time of day to UK Local and National destinations, 0845 and 0870 numbers, and to 10 popular international destinations, whilst reducing our fixed monthly line rental to 8.99, substantially below the price charged by any of our principal competitors.
Recently published customer satisfaction surveys continue to compare us favourably against our competitors, and we were delighted to receive our first Best Buy recommendation from Which?
magazine during the year for our combined fixed telephony and broadband package.
They also rated us as the best energy supplier on two separate occasions, with a customer satisfaction rating significantly higher than any of the Big 6 suppliers.
And when we asked our own customers directly for their opinion, over 94% said they would recommend us to a friend.
We intend to capitalise on these positive opinions by continuing to promote our customer referral programme.
This provides existing members who successfully recommend a new customer to us with an ongoing additional discount on their own monthly utility bill a discount which increases with the number of new customers they introduce.
This initiative is being supported by our inbound telesales fulfilment team, which enables potential new customers particularly those introduced by community fundraising groups to sign up for our services with the minimum of effort or inconvenience.
8 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS Once again I would like to thank our staff and Distributors for the loyalty they have shown, and the continuing contribution they are making to the success of the Company.
BOARD CHANGES I am delighted to welcome Christopher Houghton to the Board, who joined the Company last autumn and was promoted to Finance Director in February 2009 following the departure of Mr Hateley.
His previous experience at , where he qualified as a chartered accountant and had recently completed a two year secondment to The Takeover Panel, clearly identify him as a candidate of exceptional ability, and we were delighted when he accepted our offer.
His appointment represents a further important step in our continuing programme to strengthen our senior management team in line with the significant organic growth being achieved.
OUTLOOK Since the year end we have seen continuing high levels of activity, with strong growth in both new customer and new Distributor numbers.
The confidence we expressed last year in the ability of our business to continue to deliver strong results has been vindicated.
The nature of our business model continues to give us considerable visibility over future revenues, and it is extremely encouraging that we were able to maintain satisfactory gross margins last year in each of the business areas in which we operate.
However, it is more difficult to provide accurate guidance on short-term profitability during periods of rapid growth, not least due to the conservative accounting policy we adopt where all customer acquisition costs are immediately written off against profits.
This difficulty is exacerbated by the seasonal nature of domestic energy consumption in the UK, where approaching 40% of annual consumption occurs in the final quarter of each financial year, and the actual amount used can fluctuate considerably depending on the weather.
Although the absolute amount of energy our customers will use this year remains subject to considerable uncertainty, as explained above, the Company remains protected against any volatility in the wholesale energy markets under our long-term supply arrangements with npower, under which they are responsible for providing the energy used by our customers in accordance with a price formula designed to ensure we earn a positive margin whilst maintaining competitive retail prices.
The forward price curves for gas and electricity suggest that retail prices are unlikely to fall much further from their current levels over the next 12 months.
We are still the UKs only fully integrated multi-utility provider, offering customers consistent value across a wide range of services with the added convenience of receiving just a single clear and concise bill each month.
Our distribution channel has demonstrated its continuing ability to gather high quality new customers, cost-effectively and in increasing volumes: this gives us a considerable competitive advantage in the residential market.
The directors consider the rapid and accelerating growth curve we are currently following is the best way to maximise shareholder value in the medium term, notwithstanding any pressure it may create on our profitability in the meantime.
As we fund this rapid growth from the earnings generated by our current customer base, it will clearly have an impact on our reported earnings, which are also being adversely affected by a number of other factors, namely: a reduction in our financial income of around 1.5m compared with last year as a result of the sharp fall in interest rates: slightly lower energy margins following the reduction in retail prices from 1 April and a further small reduction anticipated later this year: additional fixed costs associated with our new headquarters office building: and an increase in bad debts.
For these reasons, we believe at this stage it is unlikely our profits for the current year will match the record figure for last year.
9 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED DIVIDEND We are proposing a final dividend of 12.5p for the year 2008: 10p making a total for the year of 17.5p 2008: 14p.
This represents an increase of 25% in our total payment compared with last year.
The final dividend will be paid on 7 August 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 July 2009 and is subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting which is being held on 8 July 2009.
Notwithstanding anticipated lower profits in the short-term, it remains our intention to pay a total dividend of 22p for the current year in the absence of unforeseen circumstances, even though this may not be fully covered by our earnings.
This reflects our confidence in a continuation of the current rapid growth we are seeing in both new services and new customers, which can be expected to provide the Company with a platform from which to deliver significantly higher profits in future years.
Peter Nutting Chairman 20 May 2009 10 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
