cHaiRmans statement 3 former cFo of cadbury.
they bring with them a wealth of international, commercial and financial experience which will further strengthen our Board and support our plans for the long-term growth of the group.
Whilst the downturn has presented many challenges, it has also opened up some opportunities.
We have made two very significant acquisitions this year.
We have acquired the remaining 50% of tesco personal Finance from Royal Bank of scotland, a move which will enable us to develop an already very successful financial services offer towards our objective of becoming a full-service retail bank.
in south Korea we purchased 36 hypermarkets from e-land, mostly in seoul, which has put us in a very strong position to challenge for market leadership in one of our most successful markets.
most of our growth has again been organic weve opened nine million square feet of new space this year, excluding the acquisition in south Korea.
in august we announced our entry into india, with plans to establish a cash & carry operation and a franchise agreement with trent to support their star Bazaar hypermarkets.
this complements our entries into china and the United states, giving us access to another of the worlds most important economies.
Whilst many of our customers are focused on managing their shopping budgets, it is still important to them that we behave responsibly in the communities we serve.
We now have a community plan for each country and earlier in the year we launched our community promises.
these are: actively supporting local communities: buying and selling our products responsibly: caring for the environment: giving customers healthy choices: and creating good jobs and careers.
Weve made some great progress this year weve opened our greenest ever store at cheetham Hill in manchester, with a carbon footprint that is 70% smaller than a typical store bringing our total number of green stores across the group to 37. this will be a blueprint for how we build stores in the future.
David Reid, Chairman our work to encourage customers to make greener decisions is going well.
through green clubcard points we have reduced the number of single-use carrier bags in the UK by 50% and we are finding innovative I am pleased to report that despite the extraordinary economic ways to use green clubcard elsewhere for example by rewarding environment we find ourselves in, Tesco has once again delivered customers for cycling to our stores in south Korea.
This demonstrates that Tesco is coping well with the downturn.
Despite the challenging conditions around im also pleased to announce that in the UK we have once again broken the globe we have remained resilient and are growing as fast as our charity of the Year record, raising a remarkable 6.2 million for any major international retailer.
Weve made several new appointments to the tesco Board in the year, although it was impossible to predict the scale of the global economic including laurie mcilwee who takes on the role of group Finance slowdown, tesco has responded well by adjusting our business to this Director, replacing andrew Higginson who has been appointed chief environment.
our 470,000 strong team have done a fantastic job executive of Retailing services whilst retaining his responsibility for staying close to customers and reacting quickly to their changing needs group strategy.
laurie has been with tesco for nine years and has a very strong tracki am confident that this hard work will continue as we press on with our record in both finance and operations.
in his most recent role as long-term strategy which i believe will put us in an even stronger Distribution Director laurie was responsible for transforming our position once economies start to recover.
His appointment shows once again how careful management succession planning works in tesco and i have every confidence he will do an outstanding job as our group Finance Director.
Weve also appointed three strong new non-executive Directors in recent months Jacqueline tammenoms Bakker, a former Director general at the ministry of transport in the netherlands who has also held senior positions at mcKinsey & co. and shell, patrick cescau, former ceo of Unilever and Ken Hanna, chairman of inchcape plc and Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009
