Chairmans Statement Autonomy takes nothing for granted, but its management team is knowledgeable and has strength in depth: the employees are motivated and the product is world class.
It is on this footing that we approach 2010.
Autonomy was founded in Cambridge in 1996, and is a real success story.
The business model is essentially simple, as is the structure of the Its core Intelligent Data Operating Layer IDOL technology continues to be company.
It generates, partly because of that simplicity, higher levels of the software solution of choice for more than 20,000 valuable customers in profitability and cash conversion than many of the worlds largest nearly every country in the world.
As the company share price has risen more than 900% over the last five Autonomy is a young company, and the young face the future with years and as its profits have grown, so has the attention paid to it by a confidence.
Dr. Mike Lynch, the CEO, was named Entrepreneur of the world outside the software realm.
This is only to be expected for a Year in 2009.
He and the management team are to be congratulated on company which has been the best performing FTSE stock since 2004, and 27 consecutive quarters of year-on-year revenue growth, an unbroken one with gross profit margins of about 90% and operating profit margins of history of profitability going back to the turn of the millennium, and on the about 45%.
success of the company to date.
When I became Chairman a few months ago in May 2009, it was in Autonomy takes nothing for granted, but its management team is recognition by the Board of the need to conserve such a successful formula knowledgeable and has strength in depth: the employees are motivated but also to make some changes to reflect the high profile which such and the product is world class.
It is on this footing that we approach 2010. success must rightly attract.
The Board is in the course of appointing two new, independent non-executive directors, one with extensive financial and On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank everyone at Autonomy for their management expertise and the other with the academic background tremendous efforts during the past year.
The strength of Autonomys necessary to understand, and enjoy, the mathematical formulae on which success can be seen in its people, all of whom have had to deal with the success of Autonomys IDOL infrastructure and its satellite brands are difficult markets and new challenges over the past year, and have delivered based.
The Board has also altered the Remuneration Policy.
Autonomy very well on behalf of our shareholders.
operates in the realm of pure software, where precise UK-based comparators are difficult to find.
Although only two executives are materially affected, the company has the lowest paid management team in the FTSE 100, despite the top level performance.
At the same time we are putting great efforts into increasing, as this Annual Report will itself Robert S. Webb QC demonstrate, the level of narrative and general disclosure given by the Chairman company.
22 February 2010 2 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
