10 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | Strategic overview Chairmans statement Growing in strength We have again delivered a strong set of results against a backdrop of challenging economic conditions and exceptional cost inflation from jet fuel prices and currency movements.
Our performance in 2009 proves that the flexibility and diversity of our model works and is testament to the strength of our management team and our market-leading brands.
Dr Michael Frenzel Non-Executive Chairman Two years on from the formation of TUI Travel, we Board have made substantial progress in implementing Christoph Mueller resigned as Aviation Director our strategic imperatives and delivering our roadmap.
and subsequently left the Board in May 2009.
We are on track to achieve our synergy target and In October 2009, Horst Baier was appointed as a have successfully resolved a number of key strategic Non-Executive Director.
The Board is composed of issues identified at the time of the merger.
Some a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
underperforming businesses remain and we are confident that we can turn these around.
We are Colleagues focusing increasingly on the significant growth Providing special holiday experiences to our opportunities identified within both the Mainstream customers is down to the hard work and enthusiasm and Specialist Sectors, which I believe will deliver of our colleagues.
Our colleagues are at the heart of superior and sustainable long term growth.
achieving our objectives and successes and we have outstanding talent at every level of the business.
Results I thank them on behalf of the Board.
The Group has achieved an 11% increase in underlying operating profit to 443m, 2008: Sustainable development 398m on slightly lower revenue of 13,863m Sustainability is important to our customers, 2008: 13,932m.
Underlying profit before tax colleagues and ultimately our shareholders.
Underlying aware of our responsibility to manage our impacts earnings per share increased by 17% to 23.8p, on the environment and people.
The Group statutory loss before the greatest environmental challenge facing humanity taxation was 52m 2008: 267m.
and we recognise that we contribute to global carbon emissions, particularly through our aircraft Dividends operations.
We work hard to reduce this impact and The Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.7p I am pleased to report that our emissions compare per share.
On 19 May 2009, the Board recommended favourably with our peers.
an interim dividend of 3.0p per share, thereby resulting in a full year dividend of 10.7p per share Dr Michael Frenzel previous year 9.7p.
The Group has a progressive Non-Executive Chairman dividend policy and will look to maintain underlying dividend cover at just over two times.
