Directors Report: Group overview Chairmans statement Over the years we have built a strong reputation with host governments and partners, which has helped us to grow and monetise our resources and deliver value for all stakeholders.
Pat Plunkett Chairman Results in line with expectations The Groups financial results were in line with 2009 was another great year for market expectations and reflect the stage we are at in developing the business.
Across the business our in recent years has focused on building and people, processes, operations commercialising our resource base.
With first oil from Ghana later this year, we are entering a phase and projects delivered on all fronts.
that should deliver major production growth, which should underpin a stronger financial performance.
As a result, Tullow is in a period of transition and this will be reflected in our 2010 and 2011 results.
In 2009, the Groups financial results were down compared with a record 2008.
This is mainly as a result of lower production volumes, lower commodity prices and an increased charge for IAS 39: Financial Instruments.
In addition, while exploration write-offs in 2009 were lower than 2008, the Group had less profit on disposal of assets to offset this as a result of lower levels of portfolio management activity.
Continued exploration success Exploration and Appraisal E&A activity continued apace, delivering a record 87% success rate in 2009.
Highlights for the year include: The 300 million barrel Jobi-Rii discovery in Uganda, one of Africas largest onshore oil fields: 14 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts The commercial threshold for development of the Growth in total workforce Lake Albert Rift Basin in Uganda was comfortably exceeded with a 96% drilling success rate to date: An ongoing E&A campaign in Ghana confirmed 24% significant further potential: year-on-year increase in Tullows total workforce in 2009 as we continued to invest in building our team and organisation.
The Tweneboa discovery indicated the potential of another world-class oil and gas accumulation, 700 some 25 km west of the Jubilee field: and 669 630 The successful Venus B-1 exploration well in 560 540 Sierra Leone demonstrated a petroleum system 490 that spans two of the most exciting and highly 420 370 prospective basins in the world today.
350 280 Solid production and fast-track development 210 Excellent performance was achieved by production 140 and development.
Highlights include: 70 Efficient execution of incremental development 0 07 08 09 projects throughout our portfolio of assets to achieve production of 58,300 boepd in 2009: tragedy has had on his family, whom we continue Setting a new industry benchmark for the fast-track development of the Jubilee field, to support.
In addition, we undertook a comprehensive response, spearheaded by Paul McDade, our Chief which is on target to deliver first oil in the fourth quarter of this year: Operating Officer and Board Director responsible for EHS, and full details are set out on page 73.
Best in class deepwater well delivery by the Tullow well engineering team: and Overall, our safety performance for the year was Initiating development work in Uganda that is satisfactory.
We achieved our target of a Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR of less than 1.0, but targeting first commercial oil in 2011, with early we did not achieve our stretch target of 0.50 as production from well testing in 2010. we recorded an outcome of 0.76 2008: 0.54.
Total Creating value for all stakeholders Recordable Injuries declined to 20 2008: 28 and Our vision is to be the leading global independent oil High Potential Incidents HIPOs declined to 10 and gas company.
To achieve this we have a clear and 2008: 24.
Over 6.6 million hours were worked consistent strategy and a long-term perspective on in Tullow in 2009, an increase of 18% on 2008. how we develop our business.
This means we protect 4.4 million of those hours were worked in Africa.
our reputation, carefully manage and mitigate risk Excellent environmental engagement and invest in people and partnerships.
We also work to ensure that we create the internal and external Across the Group, a strong environmental performance was achieved.
There were no major operating environment Tullow needs to successfully continue our growth strategy and deliver our business environmental incidents and good progress was made with toes Tullow Oil Environment Standards.
By doing all of these things well, we create Some excellent work was undertaken with the Ghana competitive advantage for Tullow and more importantly Jubilee Environmental Impact Assessment EIA and we create long-term benefits for all our stakeholders.
public consultation process, the French Guiana EIA Keeping people safe and the environmentally sensitive approach taken Our number one priority is to keep everyone who to drilling the Ngassa-2 well in Uganda.
While works with Tullow or lives in our local communities these case studies will be fully documented in our safe.
We have a very clear Health and Safety H&S upcoming 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report, policy which is strongly supported by our EHS further information is available in the corporate Leadership Team and commitment statements.
responsibility section on page 72 of this report.
It is reflected in employee inductions, continuous training and careful monitoring and reporting to Tullows Board and management.
Despite this, in 2009, Tullow had its first ever fatality when a building contractor died at the Bangora gas processing facility in Bangladesh.
We deeply regret his death and are very saddened by the effect this www.
com 15 Directors Report: Group overview Directors Report: Group overview Chairmans statement continued Strong portfolio management I would like to take this opportunity On 17 January 2010, Tullow chose to exercise to thank our shareholders and its right of pre-emption for the entire interests of Heritage Oil plc, our partner in the Lake Albert Rift banking partners for their Basin, in Uganda.
A formal request for Government continued strong support, which consent to transfer these assets to Tullow was is fundamental to the long-term submitted on 2 February 2010.
The acquisition price is expected to be up to US$1.5 billion.
Tullow is now working closely with the Government Pat Plunkett to gain approval for the pre-emption of the Heritage Chairman interests in parallel with the farmdown process, which is now at an advanced stage.
Two new potential partners have been identified, CNOOC and Total, and it is expected that each partner will take a one third interest in each of the three blocks.
Presentations by all parties have recently been made to the relevant Ugandan authorities and Tullow expects the transactions to be signed in April 2010.
This will result in a unified partnership with considerable Building a very strong team experience and financial capability to enable Uganda Each year I write about the level of investment we are to become a significant oil producing nation.
making in building the Tullow organisation.
2009 was Prudent dividend policy no different.
The Tullow team continued to grow with The Group has very significant capital requirements 182 new people joining during the year.
Our total with forecast 2010 capital expenditure close to workforce is now 880 people with 669 full time 1 billion.
As a result, the Board feels it is best employees and 211 full time contractors.
We are to continue to be conservative in its approach to also investing in developing in-country skills and Tullows dividend policy and that it is appropriate now have over 75% Ugandan nationals working in to maintain the final dividend at the 2008 level.
our operations in Uganda and over 80% Ghanaians The final dividend proposed is 4.0 pence per share, in our operations in Ghana.
which brings the total payout for 2009 to 6.0 pence Our 2009 independent employee survey delivered per share 2008: 6.0 pence per share.
The dividend will be paid on 21 May 2010 to shareholders on the excellent engagement results and most representative of all was staff turnover of only 2.0% during the year.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 12 May 2010 at Haberdashers Hall This survey also demonstrated good engagement with our values and culture, which is an important in London.
measure, as the Group continues to grow.
Consistent strategy With partners and governments we are working to Strengthened capital structure Our finance team secured US$2 billion and US$250 commercialise two world-class basins in Ghana and Uganda.
We are retaining our exploration focus with million debt facilities in March and December 2009 and raised gross proceeds of 1.3 billion with two up to 12 Equatorial Atlantic, 10 Ugandan and eight wildcat wells planned in our 2010 E&A programme.
successful equity placings in January 2009 and January 2010.
The combination of the Groups equity We are underpinning these activities with appropriate financing and risk management strategies.
and debt raising and the successful completion of the Ugandan farmdown will ensure that Tullow is Our short to medium-term objective is to build a adequately capitalised to fund its medium-term business with a production output and operational strategy.
Further information on Tullows strategy, cash flow that is capable of funding a major annual long-term financing and risk management are on exploration programme.
Dynamic risk management In February 2010, we received preliminary results Risk management is an integral part of our strategy of an independent investment community perception and our operations.
As a business we could not survey.
The results are very positive and the Board function at such a high level unless we are very looks forward to a full presentation in April to review, specific about the identification and management and address as appropriate, some of the strategic of risk, and how we respond if things go wrong.
considerations this research has raised.
Risk factors are reported monthly to the Board in an independent process which is validated by Group Internal Audit.
It is a dynamic system that continually 16 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts
