02 Chairmans Statement Live events are of increasing strategic importance to UBM: in 2009 we ran more than 300 events which generated more than 50% of our profits.
Live events that offer in person face-to-face interaction particularly when done at scale have a strong future in the digital age.
Dear shareholder UBMs creditable performance in 2009 is a tribute to the resilience of our people and management.
The business has continued to progress both strategically and operationally in all of its divisions and is increasingly well positioned to generate excellent returns as the global economy recovers.
UBMs strategy UBMs strategy has been implemented consistently over the past five years.
We continue to invest in businesses that serve specialist professional and commercial communities with events, information, marketing services and media products.
They range from tradeshows, news distribution, virtual careers fairs and social media monitoring to business information and market data analytical services.
The skills, knowledge and experience gained in serving one community are transferred and reapplied to meet the needs of other communities in different markets and geographies, increasingly in rapidly-growing emerging markets, such as China, India and Brazil.
John Botts Resilient financial performance Chairman 1 In 2009 UBM delivered adjusted group operating profit that fell by 1.3% to 171.2m 2008: 173.5m.
These figures benefit from the depreciation of sterling and are improved by the positive effect of some 2 of our large biennial tradeshows.
Underlying operating profit was down 3 Seven-year dividend and EPS pence by 13.9% and adjusted diluted earnings per share fell by 2.9% to 54.2p 2008: 55.8p.
In statutory reporting terms, UBM recorded a group 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 operating loss of 25.8m 2008: profit of 107.6m after exceptional Dividend per share 9.0 12.0 15.0 18.0 21.6 23.8 24.2 items and a basic earnings per share of 30.9p 2008: 31.5p.
The Board Adjusted diluted has announced a second interim dividend of 18.2p 2008: 18.2p, 3 earnings per share 21.7 29.0 36.6 43.8 52.3 55.8 54.2 bringing the total dividend for the year to 24.2p 2008: 23.8p, representing an increase of 1.7% in the full year dividend.
Strategic progress amidst tough conditions Our core divisions continued to develop in line with our strategy, particularly the live events portfolio which remains a key investment focus.
The portfolios performance was buoyed by notably strong performances by the biennial tradeshows Marintec in Shanghai and 1 Adjusted group operating profit is group operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit from joint ventures and associates.
2 Underlying operating profit is operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit from joint ventures and associates adjusted for the estimated effects of acquisitions, discontinued products, foreign exchange and biennial events.
3 Adjusted diluted earnings per share is before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, certain exceptional items, deferred tax on intangible assets, taxation relating to exceptional items and net financing expense other, after adjusting for the impact of share options.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 03 Food Ingredients Europe in Frankfurt.
The continuing geo-cloning Investing in our people of our successful products and services, particularly tradeshows, into Our new CFO Bob Gray joined UBM in September from Codere SA, emerging markets is now making an impact.
Revenues in China, India a  global gaming company.
Previously Bob spent and Brazil grew 35.9% and our profits in these countries substantially 24 years in investment and commercial banking with Deutsche Bank exceeded those in the UK.
In China, UBM is the largest privatelyand JP Morgan.
We bade farewell to Nigel Wilson as UBMs CFO and owned organiser of tradeshows, with a staff of more than 700 people.
The Board thanks Nigel for the huge contribution he We have also appointed a senior UBM representative in Beijing to made to UBMs corporate development in his seven years with us, reinforce our expansion and domestic presence.
and we wish him well in his new role as CFO at Legal & General.
Live events are of increasing strategic importance to UBM: in 2009 The Board has been strengthened with the appointment of two we ran more than 300 events which generated more than 50% of our new non-executive directors: Terry Neill, previously a senior partner profits.
Live events that offer in person face-to-face interaction in Accenture, and Greg Lock, who joined us in February 2010 and is a particularly when done at scale have a strong future in the digital age.
former senior IBM executive with extensive experience in the software We have also invested in the development of a range of virtual events and IT services industry.
Karen Thomson and Pradeep Kar, both of which support the face-to-face experience of our tradeshows.
We see whom have served as non-executive directors for three years, have agreed significant opportunities in taking advantage of the complementarities to continue for a further three year term and will be proposed for between virtual and in person events.
We ran 38 virtual events re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2010. during 2009.
We appointed five new divisional Chief Executives in 2009.
Both Digital age dynamics are reshaping the media industry and we Ninan Chacko at PR Newswire and Peter von Moltke at UBM Aviation continue to take advantage of the enormous business opportunities were external appointments while Harry Page at UBM TechInsights, presented by this shift.
We concentrate on providing high value data and John Day at UBM Global Trade and Mike Coffey at RISI were all workplace solutions which allow professionals from medical general appointed from within UBM.
Our growing ability to promote from practitioners to industrial procurement managers to combine, within is in no small part attributable to our investment in our rearrange and analyse datasets in support of their decision-making.
management development over the last several years, particularly the This massive structural shift continues to compromise the future Business Leaders Programme which identifies promising UBM viability of print products and has been exacerbated by the economic managers and equips them with skills to become exceptional business downturn.
Our strategy is to establish a smaller set of market-leading leaders.
This growing cadre of executives will lead our future expansion.
print titles which earn consistent margins.
In 2009 we closed 31 titles, as well as merging and reducing the publication frequency of others.
Corporate responsibility The process of rebalancing UBMs print portfolio is not yet complete print magazine revenues contributed 19.6% of revenues and 5.2% of UBMs corporate responsibility programmes operate across the adjusted profits in 2009, compared with 56.2% and 28.5% respectively Company but two are emblematic.
In Brazil, UBM organised and in 2004 but there is a clear path towards reshaping UBMs print underwrote a conference-expo, called NGO Brazil, to bring together portfolio towards market leading and higher margin products.
non-governmental organisations operating in So Paulo to share Unfortunately this process has also meant significant redundancies.
experiences and to learn from one another.
By using UBMs commercial The 16.5m restructuring charge largely reflects these costs.
and operational skills, we are meeting our corporate responsibilities Our acquisition programme is critical and has generated an in one of our key markets and expect to geo-clone this event in aggregate return on investment of 9.2% pre-tax over the last three other countries.
years from some 36 investments for a total of 170.2m, including Reducing UBMs carbon footprint is another example.
In 2009 the latest estimate of expected earnouts.
UBMs management has we reduced our carbon output in the UK by 1,500 tonnes of CO2e significant expertise and experience which will continue to underpin as compared to 2008.
Our new reporting systems will measure the selection, acquisition and integration of compatible businesses at the carbon-related impact of our activities, enabling us to take action the right valuation.
to further reduce that output.
We have resolved our decade-long dialogue with the UK tax Finally, the Board and I would like to thank the people of UBM for authorities over the tax payable on the sale of our Regional Newspapers producing such a strong performance in this extremely difficult year.
business in 1998 by agreeing to make a payment of 46.5m in settlement of this and a number of other tax issues.
This, together with the John Botts resolution of a number of other tax matters, has resulted in a release Chairman of 135.2m of our tax creditor.
United Business Media Limited United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009
