Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairmans statement growth in dividend per share 31.2p 20% 2008: 26.0p Dr Julian Blogh, Chairman The Board has an evaluation process by which the effectiveness of Dear shareholder the Board, its sub-committees and each individual Director are I am pleased to report that 2009 has been another good year for assessed over a rolling two year period.
In 2009 the effectiveness of Ultra.
The Group has maintained its focus on growing market individual Board members was reviewed with the assistance of an sectors in defence, security, transport and energy.
exploited its position as a specialist supplier of electronic and software systems, products and services.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all Ultra employees for their hard work and continuing commitment, which have made Ultra has continued to benefit from the successful execution of its such important contributions to our success.
Indeed, the Group broadened its portfolio of specialist dedicated employees are central to the Groups progress.
With so capabilities, gained positions on new platforms and programmes, much professionalism, commitment and enthusiasm in the Group, won business with new customers and widened its geographic I am confident that we can meet the challenges of the future, to reach during 2009. ensure that we capitalise on the many opportunities before us to The Group increased headline profit before tax by 24% and win new business and to continue the development of Ultra.
generated an operating cash inow of over 110 million whilst I am able to report once again that your Company is in excellent investing more in new markets, technologies, products and condition and is set to continue to deliver superior shareholder capabilities.
As a result of this performance the Board is proposing value.
Ultra has positioned itself in high growth sectors within its to increase the total dividend per share by 20% to 31.2p.
This is in markets, has a broad portfolio of offerings on long-term line with the Groups policy of maintaining dividend cover at about programmes with a wide customer base and continues to expand three times.
This has created a resilient business model Importantly, 2009 also saw us make good progress relating to the that supports the Groups future performance.
In addition, Ultra has Boards main objective of delivering superior performance to a track record of driving organic growth, successfully integrating shareholders, as measured through total shareholder return.
Ultra acquisitions, winning new business and executing contracts increased its earnings per share more quickly than most of its peer effectively.
These factors combined give the Board confidence in the group companies.
continuing progress of the Group.
The composition of the Board changed in 2009.
Paul Dean joined Dr Julian Blogh, Chairman the Group board as Group Finance Director and very quickly became part of the team.
Paul has made a valuable contribution already and I am confident he will help drive the Group forward.
Sir Robert Walmsley became a Non-Executive Director in the year, Ultra share price pence bringing to Ultra his wealth of experience with the Royal Navy, the MoD and his board membership of other major groups.
1400 The intention has been announced that Douglas Caster will become 1200 Chairman in 2011 when I will step down and that Rakesh Sharma will succeed him as Chief Executive at the same time.
Rakesh has 1000 been with Ultra for over twenty years and has successfully undertaken a range of senior management jobs in that time.
He was 800 appointed Chief Operating officer of the Group on 1 January 2010.
600 Sir Robert Walmsley and Paul Dean took part in Ultras annual strategy review process with the other members of the Board and 400 with the Groups Executive Team.
Ultra has a robust annual strategic review process in which a rolling five year plan is reviewed 200 and refreshed.
At the core of this process is the need to ensure we are maximising long-term value for shareholders while acting 0 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 responsibly.
The Group has a resilient strategy, effective financial and other controls and is organised to deliver its plan.
Ultra has Ultra Electronics Holdings plc FTSE 100 price index empowered its management teams in the businesses so that they FTSE all share price index FTSE all share may operate in a responsive, exible and agile way.
By constantly aerospace defence pursuing product and process innovation, Ultras businesses are in strong positions to provide and deliver differentiated products, services and solutions to meet customer requirements.
04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01
