Report of the Directors Overview Chairmans statement Michael Treschow Chairman Ann Fudge is a non-executive director at Novartis and at General Electric.
Ann served as the chairman and chief executive officer of Young & Rubicam Brands from 2003 to 2006.
Prior to joining Young & Rubicam, she worked at General Mills and at Kraft Foods.
Ann has great knowledge and experience of branded consumer goods and, particularly, the food industry.
Paul Walsh is chief executive officer of Diageo and a non-executive director of FedEx Corporation.
He is a member of the Business Council for Britain, and chairman of the Scotch Whisky Association.
Paul is one of Britains most respected business leaders.
Ann and Paul sit on the Remuneration Committee, bringing its composition in line with the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which states that this committee should comprise at least three independent non-executives.
I am also delighted to announce that The Rt Hon Sir Malcolm Rifkind MP has agreed to be nominated for election as a I am delighted to be able to report that Unilever Non-Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs.
We believe that Sir Malcolm with his broad background in international affairs has had a good year.
We have seen solid will be a valuable addition to the Boards.
progress on our top line and an improvement in underlying operating margin.
Leon Brittan, Wim Dik and Narayana Murthy will be retiring as Non-Executive Directors at the end of our 2010 Annual This is particularly pleasing given the state of the global economy.
Narayana and Wim have served on A year ago when I was drafting my statement for our 2008 our Corporate Responsibility and Reputation CRRC and Audit Annual Report there was little cause for business to be optimistic.
Committees respectively, and Leon as Chairman of the CRRC.
On The world was in one of the most serious economic downturns behalf of our Boards, I take this opportunity to thank them all for that had ever been experienced.
Unemployment was high and their individual contributions and service since their appointments.
At the AGMs in May 2010 we intend to propose Jean-Marc Hut for election to the Boards.
Jean-Marc took over as Chief Financial Much of Unilevers ability to weather this storm so well is due Officer in February 2010 following the departure of Jim Lawrence.
He has sharpened the strategy, improved execution in the market place, sharpened the emphasis The first quarterly dividend will be paid on 17 March.
This change on innovation and injected a new sense of energy and urgency to quarterly dividends will result in more frequent payments to into the Group.
Our investors have recognised this.
Unilever shareholders which I hope you will find helpful.
was ranked fifth on total shareholder return in its peer group of 21 companies.
Finally, on behalf of the Boards, I would like to extend my sincere thanks to all of Unilevers 163,000 employees across the world.
Paul Polman was not the only addition to the Boards in 2009.
They have had to cope with difficult economic conditions We also welcomed three new Non-Executive Directors Louise externally and significant change internally.
Yet they have still Fresco, Ann Fudge and Paul Walsh.
Their arrival has strengthened managed to deliver an excellent set of results.
both the breadth of experience and the diversity of the team.
Louise Fresco is Professor of International Development and Sustainability at the University of Amsterdam and a visiting Professor at Stanford University.
Her deep knowledge of agriculture and sustainability will be of great value as we prepare ourselves to operate in a world where both food and water will become increasingly scarce.
Michael Treschow Chairman 4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
