Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that in the year ended Brazil increased the Groups global footprint March 2009 AVEVA again achieved strong in regions that offer significant opportunities growth in revenue, profit and cash, despite and contributed to an increase in selling and increasing turbulence in many of the Groups distribution costs of 36% to 53.2 million end markets.
Key financials The Groups balance sheet strengthened Revenue increased in the year by 29% considerably in the period as the Groups to 164.0 million 2008 127.6 million.
cash increased by 52%, and amounted Key contributors to this were the levels to 126.2 million 2008 82.8 million of growth achieved in our Asia Pacific and at the year end.
Central, Eastern and Southern European SummARy oF chAIRmANS StAtemeNt regions CES where revenue increased 32% Dividend Revenue increased by 29% and 40% respectively.
The mix of revenue Continued growth in profit and a strong to 164 million.
remained broadly in line with those seen in cash position lead the Board to recommend previous years with recurring fees amounting a final dividend of 6.5 pence 2008 5.0 pence.
Adjusted profit before tax increased to 57% of total revenue at 94.2 million Combined with the interim dividend of by 31% to 62.6 million.
2008 66.1 million and initial 2.86 pence 2008 1.65 pence this fees amounting to 57.7 million gives a full year dividend of 9.36 pence R&D investment increased by 28%.
Full year dividend increased by 41%.
Increased revenue combined with strong Subject to approval at the Annual General Footprint expanded in growth economies.
margins delivered an adjusted profit before Meeting the final dividend will be paid on tax, amortisation, share-based payments and 31 July 2009 to shareholders on the register goodwill adjustment of 62.6 million, which on 26 June 2009. is an increase of 31% 2008 47.9 million.
Adjusted earnings per share amounted to People 67.33 pence 2008 55.22 pence an increase On behalf of the Board I would like to take of 22%.
Profit before tax increased by 32% this opportunity to thank all of our staff for to 59.2 million 2008 45.0 million.
their important contribution over the last Basic earnings per share was 62.27 pence twelve months.
As all are aware, the market 2008 50.80 pence.
turbulence has made it necessary for the Board to review the structure of the Company.
In the first six months of the financial year Inevitably, this has led to some very difficult the Company continued to increase investment decisions being made and a restructuring in both its products and sales organisation, programme has been put in place in although in the second half the levels of April 2009.
The restructured skills base investment slowed.
The year as a whole and annualised cost savings of approximately saw increased investment in Research 5.0 million mean that AVEVA is now better and Development of 28% to 27.3 million equipped to trade through these challenging 2008 21.3 million.
Despite the potentially unsettling of its existing regional offices in Mexico and nature of this programme, the hard work, Russia and the opening of a new office in support and efforts of all our staff has remained first class.
buildiNg oN our 02 AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2009 overview business review corporate governance financial statements During the year Lennart Olsson, Head of The restructuring programme already Global Sales, retired.
Lennart joined AVEVA initiated means that AVEVA is better as part of the acquisition of Tribon in 2004. equipped to successfully trade through Under his guidance, AVEVAs sales organisation the difficult trading environment whilst has achieved outstanding results.
On behalf allowing the Company to invest selectively of the Board and Company I wish Lennart a long in already identified important growth and happy retirement.
opportunities, for example with regard to AVEVA NET and in South America and the CIS.
Following the retirement of Lennart we were pleased to appoint Derek Middlemas as Group Operations Director, overseeing all sales and business development activities.
Derek joined AVEVA in 2000 and brought with him a wealth of engineering experience.
Over recent years Derek led our Business Strategy group, helping Nick Prest to align the ambitions of the Company with Chairman the requirements of the market.
I have no 26 May 2009 doubt that Dereks industry knowledge and forward thinking approach will contribute greatly to our future success.
outlook The sustained and considerable investment made by the Group over the past few years in developing our product range and expanding our geographical presence will ensure AVEVA maintains its position as a world leader in the markets in which it operates.
As the current global economic slowdown continues and the oil price and shipping rates sit at lower levels than in recent years, some projects are now being postponed or cancelled, awaiting project funding or visibility of more certain times.
Against this backdrop, AVEVAs customer relations and best in class products will remain ever more important and will help to maintain levels of recurring revenue and exploit new opportunities.
strategy Sustained and considerable investment made over the past few years in developing our product range and expanding our geographical buildiNg oN our presence will ensure AVEVA maintains its position as a world leader.
Annual report 2009 Directors report AVEVA Group plc 03 AVEVA NET is a powerful information management solution, capable of handling all types of digital information not just engineering data to create a complete digital model of a plant or ship.
It enables the full exploitation of reliable, up-to-date and fully cross-referenced project and operational information.
For further information visit: http: www.
com avevanet the challenge Chinas Shanxi Electric Power Exploration & Design Institute needed to find a way to import, manage and access data on the Linfen Thermal Power Project project.
This project had generated vast amounts of disparate data 3D designs, drawings, manufacturers data, correspondence, and so on created using many different software applications, with no method of associating and validating the project information.
The Institute was also seeking a platform for project collaboration and mark-up to share documents and drawings around the globally dispersed project organisations.
the solution The Institute turned to AVEVA NET, to provide an information management hub for visualisation: the import of data and documents from multiple information sources and access to it through a unified, web-based interface.
This involved a real mix of applications specialist document management systems, file convertors, an XML layer for Chinese character support, and so on.
However, using AVEVA NET, even such complex data could be imported automatically, enabling staff to focus on customising other aspects of AVEVA NET to meet their precise needs.
the outcome AVEVA NET provided the entire project team with a single, up-to-date source for every type of information relating to the project.
It also enabled them to create intelligent associations between data, so that the system can, for example, highlight when information is missing or incomplete.
A similar project at the Jin Xin substation is now well advanced and has clearly demonstrated AVEVA NETs ability to greatly improve efficiency.
buildiNg oN our 04 AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2009 overview business review corporate governance financial statements INFo Box Key facts AVEVA NET delivers competitive advantage in both the creation and operation of ships and plants, with potential application in any industry requiring the management of huge volumes of disparate information.
An intuitive, webbrowser interface enables easy accessibility, sharing and collaborative use of information across globally dispersed enterprises.
There is no limit to the scale of an AVEVA NET deployment.
On some of the worlds largest operating plants, over 6,000 information accesses per day is not unusual.
AVEVA NETs ability to import, control and manage existing data, such as laser scanned surveys, operations and maintenance systems, brings its key benefits to operators of established assets.
iNvestmeNt iN reseArch ANd developmeNt m 27.3 27.3m 21.3 28% 17.6 13.9 10.4 05 06 07 08 09 teChnology AVEVA NET is the core of AVEVAs Product Lifecycle Management PLM solutions.
It is a vital component in successfully managing the information buildiNg oN our needs of both Plant and Marine industry projects, from conception right through to the demands of ongoing asset information management.
Annual report 2009 Directors report AVEVA Group plc 05
