Overview 04 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Chairmans Statement These are robust results in a challenging economic environment, which re ect the inherent strengths of Vedantas business model pillar of delivering industry leading organic growth.
The Groups attractive project pipeline is value accretive even at lower commodity prices and we are on track to produce 1 million tonnes each of copper and zinc-lead, 2.5 million tonnes of aluminium, 25 million tonnes of iron ore and 6,500 MW of captive and commercial power.
The first stream of the Lanjigarh alumina re nery is now fully operational.
We also successfully commissioned the Nchanga smelter and the zinc concentrator at Rampura Agucha during the year.
I am also pleased to report that the Indian Supreme Court cleared the bauxite mining project at Niyamgiri.
We expect to commence mining our own bauxite from Niyamgiri in the current year.
Expansion of our reserve and resource base through exploration is an extension of our sustainable growth strategy I have great pleasure in reporting Delivering operational ef ciencies and I am happy to report that we successfully added signi cant reserves another strong year for Vedanta In line with the first pillar of our strategy Resources plc and our sixth as a to optimise the performance of our at our Zinc and Iron Ore businesses.
We reported existing assets, we remained focused on strong revenues of US$6.6 billion achieving productivity enhancements Well positioned through the cycle The inherent strength of our sustainable and EBITDA of US$1.6 billion, despite and operating ef ciencies to ensure sharply deteriorating commodity we retain our competitive advantage low cost operations ensures we are well positioned in a period of dif cult prices and economic environment.
as one of the lowest cost producers I am delighted to report that we are of our commodities.
In 2009, we also economic conditions and commodity prices.
We have responded decisively exceptionally well positioned in these continued to aggressively implement uncertain times due to our strong the turnaround plan at our KCM and promptly to current market conditions, temporarily shutting down balance sheet, low cost operations, operations which has begun to yield strong organic growth pipeline and promising results, re ected in the our MALCO smelter and a part of the BALCO I smelter.
We have sold surplus track record of delivering capital sharp fall in costs over the last quarter.
projects at benchmark low costs and power at attractive rates and optimised returns.
We also reviewed our capital timelines.
This provides the foundation Organic growth opportunities for delivering pro table growth and We continue to make excellent expenditure programme and reduced the total spend for our growth projects creating long-term shareholder value.
progress against our second strategic 1.
Pursuing Our strategy the performance organic growth of our existing opportunities assets OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 05 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 by US$5.3 billion on account of savings Asarco acquisition performance in this important area.
Finally, working capital Pursuant to the fourth pillar of our We intend over the coming months to initiatives have enhanced free cash strategy to leverage our existing skills develop this process, and to continue ow in the period.
These initiatives, and look for additional investment our efforts to actively engage with our together with our growth programme, opportunities, we entered into an stakeholders, concerning this integral ensure we are also well positioned to agreement in March 2009 with aspect of our business philosophy.
deliver superior shareholder returns Asarco LLC, the third largest copper when commodity prices recover.
producer in the United States of People America, to purchase substantially In a business like ours, people are at Strong balance sheet and all of its operating assets for a the centre of our operations and are liquidity position renegotiated purchase consideration key to achieving our objectives.
Our Excellent cash conversion in 2009 has of US$1.7 billion.
Following approval, performance and results speak of the ensured that we exited the year with this transaction will create longoutstanding people we have across a strong balance sheet despite the term value for our shareholders.
It is because of them signi cant capital investment of US$3 that we have come a long way in a billion in the period.
Net debt at the Changes to the Board short time.
On behalf of the Board I end of the year was US$200 million.
In September 2008, MS Mehta was am thankful to all of them for their Furthermore, we have made substantial appointed as Vedantas new Chief continuing support and efforts.
We progress in strengthening Vedantas Executive to lead Vedanta through the remain committed to provide a safe liquidity.
In addition to gross cash and next stage of its development.
and supportive work environment for liquid investments of US$4.9 billion on MS Mehta has been with the Company all.
Being a truly global organisation the balance sheet at the year end, we for over nine years and brings the Group can offer exciting growth have secured US$3.7 billion of long-term immense knowledge and experience opportunities for all our employees.
project finance, including US$2 billion of the markets in which we operate.
which is subject to final documentation.
He has already streamlined our Outlook Over the past five years, we have management structure into focused The current economic environment consistently generated strong free cash commodity businesses and allowed has resulted in depressed commodity ow.
We remain con dent that even operations to have greater autonomy prices and an uncertain demand at distressed commodity prices we are and accountability.
I would like to outlook for our industry.
We have well positioned to fund the remaining take this opportunity to express my responded decisively to current market expenditure required to complete our gratitude to Kuldip Kaura, our previous conditions and remain very well placed expansion projects from existing liquid Chief Executive, for his exceptional to prosper through the commodity resources and internal cash generation.
We have a strong balance sheet this period, we became a major and liquidity.
In the short term, we Consolidation of minorities diversi ed mining company.
During the remain focused on reducing our cost Consistent with the third pillar of our year, one of our independent directors, of production, delivering our organic strategy to consolidate minorities and Dr SK Tamotia, tendered his resignation, growth programme on time and at rationalise the group structure, the which was accepted by the Board.
benchmark low capital costs and Group increased its holding in MALCO, generating strong free cash ow.
In April 2008, Sustainable development we also successfully acquired ZCIs Sustainable development is a key 28.4% stake in KCM, taking our total element of how we conduct our shareholding to 79.4%.
In respect of the activities, and we believe that businesses acquisition of the Indian Governments play an important role in tackling residual stakes in BALCO and HZL, and driving sustainability and climate we continue to make progress and change challenges.
Our focus in this anticipate an early resolution.
area re ects our determination to Anil Agarwal pursue value-creating projects for Chairman Dividend and share buy-back our shareholders that also effectively During the year the Board declared a address our environmental, social, 6 May 2009 dividend of US cents 41.5 per share, health and safety opportunities and in line with last year.
We are undertaking a process US$80.3 million to buyback 3.3% of to ensure that our key stakeholders our own equity shares in FY 2009. understand our approach and 3.
Leverage our established minorities and skills and seek additional rationalise Group investment opportunities structure
