ROBERT BEESTON 08 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT While the rate of recovery in our end-markets is difficult to predict and will vary by region, I am confident that we will deliver a much improved performance in 2010.
The speed, severity and simultaneous nature of the collapse in all of FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE our end-markets in the last quarter of 2008 was unprecedented.
The While I believe we performed well in the prevailing circumstances, impact of the weakening global economy was amplified by a destocking our financial results were inevitably significantly worse than those of inventories throughout the supply chains in which we operate.
Headline profit before tax was down 57% to 75.7m and consequence, by the first quarter of 2009 underlying revenue in almost headline earnings per share were down 80% to 18.0 pence.
We all our businesses was down around one-third compared to prior year.
incurred substantial exceptional restructuring costs 75.6m in implementing the cost reduction plan.
Overall, we reported a loss for Prompt and decisive action was taken through the last quarter of the year of 44.7m.
2008 and the first half of 2009 to reduce our cost base substantially, conserve cash and reduce net debt.
The timeliness and effectiveness DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND POLICY of these measures was illustrated by the fact that, even with the No interim dividend was paid during the year and the Board is not drastically reduced revenue in the first quarter of 2009, we remained recommending a final dividend payment in respect of 2009.
A decision at break-even at the trading profit level.
Net debt, which stood at to resume dividend payments will be made once we can see a sustained 731m at the start of 2009, was reduced to 371m by year-end.
Endrecovery in our end-markets and trading performance, and in the markets and therefore revenue remained very weak throughout context of the Groups indebtedness and cash requirements at that time.
the first half of the year but showed some improvement through BOARD AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the second half.
Trading profit improved from only 16.5m for the first half to 95.2m in the second half, reflecting both the pick-up in The Board is responsible for overseeing the Groups strategy and revenue and the success of the cost reduction measures.
The Board and the Board committees are committed to complying with the highest standards of corporate STRONG STAKEHOLDER SUPPORT governance and closely monitor new developments and requirements Our success in navigating through these very difficult conditions in this area.
was in no small part due to the strong support we enjoyed from our In February 2010 we announced the appointment of two additional main stakeholders.
Our shareholders approved and financed the members of the Board: Peter Hill as a non-executive Director and rights issue announced in January 2009 which raised 241m, net of Francois Wanecq, the current Chief Executive of our Ceramics division, expenses.
This was the main contributory factor in reducing net debt as an executive Director.
Their appointments further broaden the skills early in the year.
Our syndicate of 16 banks, which provide our main and experience available to an already strong Board and I believe we borrowing facilities, remained fully supportive throughout the year.
have a high quality team in place to guide the Group as we rebuild The UK pension fund Trustee was very helpful in agreeing to suspend performance following the impact of the global economic crisis.
cash top-up payments from early 2009 until mid 2010.
OUTLOOK Employees thoughout the Group have made an exceptional contribution, successfully managing many extremely difficult issues While the rate of recovery in our end-markets is difficult to predict including a major redundancy programme, which reduced worldwide and will vary by region, I am confident that we will deliver a much headcount by almost 20%, and short-time working hours in many improved performance in 2010.
We have leading market positions countries.
Importantly, they delivered this whilst continuing to meet supplying products and services to essential industries, a well customers requirements and tightly controlling working capital.
balanced global market presence with significant exposure to higher growth emerging markets, and a much reduced cost base.
Our I regret that large scale job losses were unavoidable in the prevailing profitability should therefore continue to recover significantly as circumstances, and I would like to offer my sincere thanks to our end-markets improve.
employees, and indeed all our stakeholders, for giving such strong support at a very challenging time.
