Victrex 09 front:Layout 1 10 12 09 08:58 Page 5 02 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chairmans Statement Board and management changes I am encouraged to report that, in spite of Tim Walker has informed the Company of his intention to retire as an challenging global economic conditions, Victrex executive Director of Victrex plc at the conclusion of the Companys has demonstrated the resilience of its business.
Annual General Meeting on 9 February 2010.
He will remain an employee of the Company until 31 March 2010, when he will have reached the normal retirement age of 62.
Tim has been the Groups Production and Technical Director for over ten years and has made an invaluable contribution to Victrex during a period of significant development and investment.
On behalf of the Board I wish Tim well in his retirement.
We do not propose to appoint a successor at Victrex plc Board level under the new divisional structure.
Further to the satisfactory completion of the strategic reorganisation and divisionalisation, our Group Chief Executive, David Hummel, who has managed the VPS division in the short-term to oversee the reorganisation, will now focus, as planned, full time on his Group responsibilities.
Accordingly, I am pleased to announce the appointment of Tim Cooper as Managing Director of the VPS division with effect from 1 January 2010.
Tim is currently Group Managing Director of Umeco Composites Process Materials, part of Umeco plc, a leading international provider of supply chain services and advanced composite materials.
With his wealth of experience Tim is well placed to lead the strategic development of all aspects of the division.
People At every level of our business, our employees have demonstrated dedication and made an outstanding contribution during this very challenging year.
Their skill and professionalism remains key to our At our Annual General Meeting in February, we announced the success and progress.
I would like to thank them personally for strategic reorganisation of our business into two divisions: Invibio, our their efforts.
biomaterials business and VICTREX PEEK, now known as Victrex Progress and prospects Polymer Solutions VPS.
Our year end results and reporting now In response to the challenges faced, the VPS division has reflect this divisional split.
successfully completed a streamlining exercise to control costs while Results and dividend continuing to develop new business and work on potential new Group profit before tax decreased by 54% to 25.1m on revenue developments with customers and end users.
Despite the global economic conditions, division is well placed to take advantage of its strong operational our Invibio division showed continued growth contributing a record gearing as volumes recover.
As previously During the year the Invibio division has continued to see success reported, Victrex Polymer Solutions VPS saw a significant decline across a range of end use markets and in emerging geographies.
in demand across all major industrial markets in the first half.
We continue to invest in resources and new technologies to drive Encouragingly, following the low point in March, monthly sales further growth opportunities.
volumes showed continued improvement throughout the second We remain committed to our key Group objective of growth half.
Overall the division remained profitable, contributing 6.3m of through investment in new application development and are operating profit 2008: 41.1m.
confident that the underlying growth drivers remain in place across The Group continues to enjoy a strong financial position with a our end use markets.
healthy balance sheet and good cash generation resulting in a year end cash balance of 18.6m and no debt.
In recognition of our confidence in the strength and continued growth potential of the business, the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 14.0p 2008: 13.1p per ordinary share, making a Anita Frew total of 19.2p 2008: 18.3p per ordinary share for the year, an Chairman increase of 5% over last year.
