2 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Chairmans statement Underlying profit before taxation and adjusted earnings per share both improved by 41% to 86.6m and 33.9p respectively.
Michael Jeffries 2009 performance It has been another excellent year for the The exit from the joint venture will provide Groups services businesses our continuing us with opportunities, both acquisitive operations, with all divisions producing good and organic, to grow our higher value, results as we focus increasingly on this sector.
We have extended our earnings visibility, The decision to exercise the put option in with the services order book increasing BVT will give the Group a strong balance by 12 per cent to 4.5bn at the year end sheet in the current economic climate.
We are in a strong position Our services businesses have all to take the Group forward to become a pure contributed to the progress of the Group services business as we prepare to exit the with VT Communications seeing an increase shipbuilding joint venture, BVT Surface Fleet.
in profit margins for the year and VT Education Turnover from continuing operations & Skills showing turnover and profit growth increased by 30 per cent in 2009 to 1,095.7m driven by the acquisition of VT Flagship in 2008: 845.4m.
Underlying profit before the year and successful contract wins in taxation improved by 41 per cent to 86.6m their training business.
VT Support Services 2008: 61.6m with the corresponding adjusted benefited from the start of our two major earnings per share improving by 41 per cent to defence contracts, the Future Strategic Tanker 33.9p 2008: 24.1p.
Operating cash conversion Aircraft FSTA and the Military Flying Training from continuing operations during the period System UKMFTS which both contributed was 105 per cent 2008: 98 per cent.
to organic turnover and profit growth.
VT Services Inc saw increases in profit This performance has enabled the Board and margins helped by the nine-month to recommend a final dividend of 10.5p per contribution from VT Aepco.
share, giving a total dividend for the year of 14.4p per share, an increase of 10 per cent In preparation for the exit from shipbuilding, over last year.
we have carried out a detailed review of the structure of the Group, which will enable us Our plans to exit the shipbuilding and naval to maintain our leading position in delivering support joint venture, BVT Surface Fleet high value-added services to customers.
BVT, subject to the approval of VT Groups shareholders and other regulatory bodies, Going forward the Group will be organised will make this year an historic one for the into three operating segments, Defence, Group, bringing to an end nearly 150 years Government and Critical Services and of shipbuilding.
VT Group Inc. VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 3 We are in a good People Outlook position due to In March, Peter McIntosh announced his The next year will be one of opportunity as excellent visibility intention to step down from the Board on the VT Group moves from its shipbuilding roots to completion of the exercise of our put option become a pure services business.
We believe of earnings, in BVT.
We would like to thank Peter for his that our new focus will provide us with a more strong operating significant contribution to the successful stable business with greater long-term visibility, cash flow, an growth of our business, in a VT career spanning financial flexibility and better prospects for expanding order 18 years in shipbuilding and ship maintenance.
We will concentrate on expanding our We would also like to thank him for supporting existing businesses organically and, where book and a robust the Ministry of Defence when on secondment appropriate, through acquisition to strengthen balance sheet.
as Chief Executive of the Carrier Alliance at our offering to existing customers and provide a critical stage of that projects development.
We wish Peter well in his future career.
Reorganising the business to create a more As a result of organisational changes in customer-focused structure will help us the Group, Group Executive Committee improve our relationships with customers and members Doug Umbers and Jo Robbins create opportunities to add extra work streams have also decided to leave VT. Doug joined to current activities.
The new structure will also VT in 1998 and has been Managing Director help us as we concentrate on renewing and of VT Communications for the past seven extending several of our existing contracts.
Jo has been Human Resources We are in a good position due to excellent Director since November 2004.
Both have visibility of earnings, strong operating cash made important contributions to the Groups flow, an expanding order book and a robust expansion in recent years and we wish balance sheet.
The Board remains confident them well in the future.
The reorganisation about the current year and beyond.
also means new roles for John Davies and Simon Withey who become UK Group Managing Directors, with John responsible for our UK Defence business and Simon for Government and Critical Services.
As part of our strategy to focus on the next stage of growth in our US business, we have appointed David Dacquino as Chief Executive of VT Group Inc. David has considerable experience of working in technical support Michael Jeffries services in the US defence sector and joined VT from Raytheon Corporation, where he was Vice President, Integrated Support Solutions, at Raytheon Technical Services Company.
Before joining Raytheon, he spent 20 years with Lockheed Martin.
During the year we conducted our first Group-wide survey of employees.
This has covered subjects such as how employees feel about working for VT as well as their views on the workplace, communications, development opportunities, reward, recognition, leadership and culture.
The survey response rate of 65 per cent and overall satisfaction rating of 78 per cent compared very favourably to external benchmark comparisons.
As a result of the survey, and the feedback from business units and employee working groups, we are implementing a series of improvements over the coming year.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year
