02 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Structured for growth Chairmans statement by Lord Smith of Kelvin I am delighted to report, that in a difficult global economic environment, the Weir Group has performed strongly in 2009 with the resilience of our business model evident in these results.
We delivered a record underlying profit and an exceptional cash performance and enter 2010 in robust financial health.
With revenues up 3%, we were able to report an increase in Group pre-tax profit from continuing operations, before intangibles amortisation, of 6%, to a record 187.0m and generated free cash flow after dividend payments of 141.1m, despite seeing order input in constant currency fall by some 18% on 2008.
We are proposing a final dividend payment to shareholders of 16.2p per share, making 21.0p for the full year, an increase of 14%, reflecting the Boards continuing confidence in the Groups business.
These results reflect the successful transformation of the Group under Mark Selways leadership, encompassing operating improvements and a strategic re-alignment into the three higher growth, higher margin, long cycle sectors of mining, oil and gas, and power.
Over the last eight years, earnings have increased more than four times, the share price has trebled and dividends to shareholders increased by 81%.
On behalf of the Board, our employees and all shareholders, I would like to thank Mark personally for his outstanding contribution to the success of the Group and wish him well in his new role back home in Australia.
As we move forward, the Group has a strong operating platform to drive growth both through organic development and value enhancing acquisitions.
It also has a number of significant advantages.
We have a clear and focused strategy targeted at three end markets with positive fundamentals, driven principally by emerging market growth.
The Groups extensive installed base of original equipment products continues to grow and provides an increasing platform for more profitable and resilient aftermarket sales.
It also provides exposure to both end market capital investment trends and underlying market activity levels.
03 We have a strong balance sheet, are highly cash generative Mark Selway Appointed chief executive in 2001, stepped and took early action to manage our way through the economic down from the role in November 2009 to take downturn.
Over the past few years, we have also put our pension up a similar position in Australia.
The Board is determined to achieve and maintain best practice in all areas of corporate responsibility and sustainability, including all aspects of health and safety.
It was pleasing therefore to see the progress made in these areas during the year and they remain a key focus for the management team with further initiatives already underway.
There have been a number of changes to the Board during the year.
I was pleased to announce the appointment of Keith Cochrane as chief executive and the subsequent seamless transition following Mark Selways decision to leave in September 2009.
The appointment of Jon Stanton to replace Keith as finance director was announced in January 2010 and Jon is expected to join us in April.
We welcomed as a new non-executive director Richard Menell who brings valuable experience to the Board particularly from a mining perspective.
Ian Percy will retire from Dividend per share the Board in April 2010 after more than 13 years of service and I 25 would like to thank him for his valuable contribution to the Group 21.0p 18.5p 20 over that period.
The Board has benefited from his wisdom, 16.5p guidance and perspective.
15 10 I would also like to thank all our employees for their dedication, 5 hard work and commitment to the success of the Group over what has been a very demanding year.
Skilled and dedicated 2007 2008 2009 people are the cornerstone of the Groups success and we are continuing to develop ways to create an environment in which we excel at all that we do.
The pace of global economic recovery during 2010 remains uncertain, but I strongly believe that our business is particularly well placed to respond to the challenges and to take advantage of the opportunities that will undoubtedly arise.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman 9 March 2010
