baCk to ContentS CHairmanS Statement This year, the Group has continued to deliver good performance in the face of challenging economic This year the Group has continued conditions.
This performance demonstrates our relative resilience in a tough trading environment and reflects to deliver good performance in the consistent and focused execution of our goal to grow our Travel business and to build on High Streets the face of challenging economic position as Britains most popular stationer, bookseller conditions.
The Group continues to have a strong balance sheet and remains highly cash generative.
Profitability and cash generation remain priorities in both the Travel and High Street businesses and I am pleased to report another year of good performance in both these areas across the Group.
Group profit before tax and exceptional items was eight per cent ahead of last year at 82m.
Total revenue for the Group was down one per cent at 1.34 billion, with like-for-like LFL 1 sales down five per cent, and strong free cash flow of 89m.
This performance led the Board to recommend a final dividend of 11.3p and to announce, on 15 October 2009, our intention to return up to 35m of cash to shareholders via a rolling share buyback programme.
2 The Travel business has achieved further profit growth despite softer passenger numbers, demonstrating the strength of the divisions business model.
Following Travels significant expansion during 2008, notably through the acquisitions of UNS Group Limited UNS and units from Alpha Retail UK Limited Alpha, 2009 has been a year of further growth with 51 units opening as well as the completion of the integration of the UNS business and Alpha units.
Travel achieved total sales 2 growth of eight per cent and profit growth of 17 per cent.
In our High Street business, we continue to make progress with the execution of our strategy to build our authority in our core categories.
We have seen further improvements during the year to increase margins and to control costs, with costs being a particular focus in light of the tough economic climate.
High Street continues to be strongly cash generative and delivered 2 profits up by four per cent, despite sales falling in a difficult market.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2 baCk to ContentS In this trading environment, we depend more than ever on the commitment of our management team, our staff and our suppliers.
We could not have achieved these results without their support.
My particular thanks go to our staff in all areas of the Group, who have worked hard to deliver this set of results.
The Groups commitment to corporate responsibility CR remains just as relevant in difficult economic times, with The Group goes into the year the CR programme contributing to our risk management and overall business efficiency.
I am pleased to report that ahead well-positioned and we have continued to make progress with our CR objectives, whether improving environmental efficiency by we remain focused on the reducing energy consumption and waste, improving the forestry standards of our own-brand timber and paper continued successful execution products or maintaining our support for literacy projects.
Our efforts continue to be recognised in the Business in the Community CR Index, where we are proud to have been awarded the highest ranking, Platinum, for the second year running.
Whilst we do not anticipate any significant changes to the economic environment in the short-term, we do believe that the Group goes into the year ahead well-positioned and we remain focused on the continued successful execution of our strategic plans.
robert Walker Chairman, WH Smith PLC 15 October 2009 1 Net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure, pension deficit funding, tax refunds and net interest received.
2 Profit from trading operations is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 WH Smith PLC 3
