Chairmans statement We enter 2010 after a year of profound change and unprecedented challenges in both our industry and our Company, but I am con dent the measures we have taken to reposition Wolseley this year will enable us to take maximum advantage of the opportunities that will arise as the global economy recovers.
John W Whybrow Chairman 4 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Further considerable progress has Summary results continuing operations Group results been made in driving improvements 2009 has been an extraordinary year, by Revenue 14.4bn in working capital which showed any measure, and we are experiencing through in an excellent operating cash 1 the most severe global downturn since Trading pro t 447m ow performance of 1,200 million the 1930s.
It was triggered by problems 2008: 1,262 million, which is only in the US housing market, which spread Operating cash ow 1,200m 5 per cent below the prior year despite to the financial services industry and has the signi cant reduction in trading pro t. 2 now moved on to the broader economy.
Cash conversion 364% Challenging targets for working capital During the year the construction have been met and across both Operating loss 606 m industry in North America and Europe continents actions have been taken to that Wolseley serves has continued to reduce capital expenditure and dispose be signi cantly adversely affected by of non-core assets and businesses.
these circumstances and consequently many of our businesses have dealt with Financial restructuring peak to trough declines in activity levels and capital raising which would not have been considered Despite the signi cant ongoing possible only 18 months ago.
actions, the demands imposed by the 1 Trading pro t, a term used throughout the The dif cult operating environment is operating environment and outlook Annual Report, is fide ned as operating pro t clearly re ected in the results for the for our industry also required that we before exceptional items and the amortisation year.
Group revenue from continuing and impairment of acquired intangibles.
reviewed more fundamentally how operations for the 12 months to See note 12 of the consolidated financial we run the business.
In particular, it statements for a reconciliation from operating 31 July 2009 was down 2.5 per cent became apparent that action was pro t to trading pro t. to 14.4 billion and earnings per share required to strengthen Wolseleys 2 Cash conversion is the ratio of operating cash from continuing operations before balance sheet and ensure that the ow to trading pro t including discontinued exceptional items and amortisation and Company maintained its focus and operations.
impairment of acquired intangibles was put its resources into our principal down 60.2 per cent to 95.6 pence.
While our financial results re ect these A comprehensive package of measures macro-economic conditions and our was announced with the accelerated exposure to them, management action Half Year Results in March which this year has remained resolutely included a share placing and rights focused on the deployment of plans to issue, which raised approximately deal with this severe market contraction.
1 billion, and a 1 billion committed Particular focus has continued on two-year forward start debt facility from restructuring actions to lower the 1 August 2011.
It was pleasing that the cost base and driving strong cash share issue was well subscribed with generation.
These actions are expected over 99 per cent of our shareholders to reduce headcount by 9,848 and voting to accept our proposals and over we have closed 653 underperforming 98 per cent of the rights offered being branches through speci c restructuring taken up.
These restructuring actions are expected to deliver annualised savings of over 431 million.
Wolseley plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairmans statement continued The Board is conscious that the During the year we also disposed of Focusing on our strengths inevitable but regrettable consequence MART, Wolseleys Hungarian plumbing At the time of the capital raising, of the capital raising exercise has been and heating business, and Wascoannounced with the release of the the dilution of the interests of some Anbuma, a carbon and stainless steel Half Year Results, we also outlined existing shareholders.
The Directors pipe business based in Belgium, to local a greater focus for the Group on the considered a range of alternative management.
North America plumbing and heating, options to raising equity, including UK and Ireland, Nordic and French Board changes the negotiation of amendments to businesses.
We strongly believe that the financial covenants in the Groups In June, Chip Hornsby stepped down signi cant shareholder value can be existing facilities and the possibility of as Group Chief Executive and the Board generated through an even greater level further disposals of businesses.
appointed Ian Meakins as his successor.
of focus on these core businesses, In all, Chip spent over 31 years in our After careful consideration, the Board which we regard as presenting the industry, joining Ferguson in 1978 and determined that the share issue was best opportunities for growth and return working his way up to take over as necessary and clearly provided the on investment in the medium term.
Chief Executive of that business in correct path to achieving financial The Group historically has achieved 2001.
He was appointed as Wolseley stability for the Group within an higher returns where it has consolidated Group Chief Executive on 1 August appropriate time frame and in a its market position, and developed 2006 and led the drive to reduce costs manner that best preserved long-term strong local brands and a critical mass, and improve cash ow in response shareholder value.
As a consequence which delivers signi cant cost and to increasingly challenging trading of the capital raising and a strong scale advantages.
conditions arising from the global working capital performance for the In March we also determined to exit financial crisis.
I would like to take year ended 31 July 2009 gearing was Stock Building Supply Stock, the this opportunity to recognise Chips signi cantly lower at 28.4 per cent Groups US building materials business.
signi cant contribution to the Group in a 2008: 73.5 per cent.
The business was loss making long and distinguished career and wish Aligning executive and highly exposed to continuing him and his family well for the future.
deterioration in the US new residential remuneration with Ian Meakins started in his new role construction market.
In May we on 13 July and brings a wealth of shareholder interests announced the disposal of the operational experience in global business and the formation of a joint In recognition of the substantial business, having undertaken a number arrangement with the Gores Group decrease in pro tability in 2009, the of leadership positions in brand, retail LLC.
Going forward Wolseley has Remuneration Committee of the and wholesale distribution operations retained a minority holding in Stock, Board has been working to bring on an international scale.
His track which will allow shareholders to bene t about fundamental change to the way record on improvement of business from any future market recovery in remuneration works for our senior performance is impressive and he is US housing, while deconsolidating its executives.
These changes are outlined already making an impact in his first results from our financial statements in the Remuneration report on page 62. few weeks.
Later on in this report, Ian and excluding these from our banking Our approach has sought to balance will share some of his early thoughts covenant commitments.
We wish the the reality of our current level of financial with you about his intentions to keep business every success under Gores performance with a need to offer a the focus on operating performance stewardship and continue to have an competitive remuneration package for given market conditions.
In addition, interest in its overall direction through individuals who are performing well he is already turning the organisations Board representation.
and in a manner aligned with long-term attention to further sharpening our shareholder interests.
In July we announced the outcome strategy to ensure prioritising investment of the strategic review of those countries in Wolseleys most attractive businesses.
In summary, at Board and Executive that comprise the Groups Central and Committee level there will be no Action has also been taken to Eastern Europe activities.
Our future bonus payments for the year ended strengthen the broad range of skills focus in the region will be on those 31 July 2009, no salary increase for the and senior experience of the Board.
countries where we have built suf cient coming year and a reduction in longOn 1 September, Alain Le Goff joined scale, established leading market term incentive plan and share option the Board as a Non Executive Director.
positions and can deliver an appropriate awards.
In addition, this year both Alain has signi cant international financial return.
Accordingly, we have Executive and Non Executive Directors experience in logistics and cost determined to sell our businesses will contribute between 1015% of reduction from the consumer products in Belgium, Slovakia and the Czech salary or fees to be used to invest in industry through his previous role at Republic.
shares in the Company, thereby further Reckitt Benckiser.
reinforcing the relationship between Director and shareholder interests.
6 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information In October, Michael Wareing will also join Summary the Board as a Non Executive Director.
In summary, last year was undeniably Michael was formerly International Chief dif cult and a continuing weak Executive of KPMG and will assume the economic environment means that 2010 role of Chairman of the Audit Committee will present signi cant challenges in all on 1 January 2010.
Although Jim of our markets.
During the year I have Murray will not be retiring from the spent a considerable amount of time Board until 2010, I would like to take working with executives, managers and this opportunity to thank him for his employees throughout the organisation signi cant contribution over the last and I continue to be impressed by eight years, and in particular for his their professionalism, dedication, and conscientious and constructive application.
I would like to thank all our leadership of the Audit Committee.
employees who have worked extremely I should also comment on a Board hard, often meeting very demanding review which we undertook during the deadlines with great enthusiasm.
This review, using an external In the current operating environment, facilitator, undertook an evaluation of the path to recovery will be neither the performance of the Board, that smooth nor straight.
But we build on of its Committees and individual a number of strengths: strong core Directors.
I am pleased to report that businesses with appropriate scale your Board was rated as being highly and leading market positions, talented effective in comparison with other people and, above all, thousands of FTSE 100 companies regarding its loyal customers around the world who engagement and contribution, and in recognise the quality of service that we its response to the economic situation.
By doing our best by them, in Equally, opportunities for continued all of our enduring franchises around development of the Board, being the world, we will take the actions cognisant of the changing internal and that will deliver once again sustainable external dynamics, were also identi ed.
I am Dividends con dent that through Ians leadership and the continued commitment and It is not appropriate to pay any dividend determination of our people, Wolseley on the ordinary shares in 2009. will make rapid progress towards However, the Board is very mindful that this objective.
dividends are an extremely important part of shareholder return and income.
It is the Boards intention over time to return to paying dividends, taking account of the Groups capital position, retained earnings and prospects.
John W Whybrow Chairman I also recognise that the reduction in the Groups value over the last year has caused considerable hardship and has demanded the actions we detail in this report.
I would like to thank our shareholders and banks for their support and faith in what we are doing.
Wolseley plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
