06 Introduction Chairmans Statement The Group had another successful year.
We have a strong balance sheet and will continue to invest in developing the business.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Introduction 07 Results People I am delighted to welcome Heath Drewett I am pleased to report that the Group After a number of years of sustained and Joanne Curin to the Board.
Heath had another successful year, with revenue growth, the Groups staff numbers joined the Board on 15 June 2009 and up 13% and normalised diluted earnings reached a peak of approximately 18,600 will assume the role of Group finance per share up by 23%.
In response to the director on 19 June 2009.
Joanne joined planned, continued to make further worsening market conditions in the latter the Board as a non-executive director progress in increasing operating margin part of the year, principally in our UK and on 10 February 2009 and will take the from 6.6% to 6.9%.
This continued Middle East commercial and residential chair of the Audit Committee on development of the Group, including the property-facing businesses, we 30 June 2009.
Lord Boyce will assume improvement in operating margins, was announced the redundancy of some the role of senior independent director, achieved against a challenging economic 1,200 staff.
Approximately 600 staff also on 30 June.
backdrop in the second half of the year.
had left the business by the year-end, taking our year-end staff numbers to Dividend In the UK, our Rail, Highways and approximately 18,000, with the remainder The Board is recommending a final Transportation and Management and leaving in the subsequent few months dividend of 17.25p, making the total Project Services segments all performed as their notice periods come to an end.
dividend for the year 26.0p 2008: 24.0p, well.
There were good performances We do not make such decisions lightly, an increase of 8%.
If approved, the from the majority of our businesses within as we take our responsibilities to our dividend will be paid on 25 September the Design and Engineering Solutions people very seriously, but they were 2009 to ordinary shareholders on the segment other than in our building design necessary in order to reduce our costs register on 14 August 2009. business which was adversely impacted in response to the changed economic by the slowdown of its market.
At the same time, however, Outlook of our small Asset Management segment we are continuing to recruit to fill We start the new financial year in a good were very disappointing, reflecting specialist vacancies in other areas of our position with work in hand representing problems with one legacy long-term PFI business, such as nuclear, which continue 54% of our budgeted revenue 2008: facilities management contract.
to experience growth in demand and 55%.
The macro-economic climate varies to take in graduate trainees.
significantly across our diverse range of The result for our business in the Middle markets.
The majority are relatively stable East was significantly ahead of last year, I would like to thank all our employees but some uncertainties remain in our UK with operating profit of 17.3m, up 82%.
throughout the Group for their building design business and confidence In the first half of the year the business commitment and efforts during these has yet to fully return in the Middle East.
grew strongly but confidence in the turbulent economic times.
We are, however, well prepared to region was significantly impacted by the respond to fluctuations, both positive global economic slowdown and a liquidity Board of directors and negative, in all our markets.
crisis in the region in autumn 2008.
Robert MacLeod, who has served as A number of projects were cancelled Group finance director since June 2004, The Group is well placed to navigate during the third quarter, necessitating and James Morley, who has served as a through the challenging overall a re-sizing of the business in the fourth non-executive director since January 2001, environment.
We have a strong balance quarter of the year.
Our businesses in have both announced their intention to sheet and will continue to invest in China and Europe have both delivered leave the Board in June 2009.
Robert will developing the business.
step down as Group finance director and leave the Board on 19 June and James The Groups liquidity remains strong will retire from the Board on 30 June.
Ed Wallis helped by a very good cash performance They have each made an invaluable Chairman and we ended the year with net funds contribution to the Group and I wish them 16 June 2009 of 234.2m.
every success in their future endeavours.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
