Babcock International Group PLC 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairmans statement In my first statement as Chairman, I am delighted to report The Board that in 2008 09 Babcock International has continued to build In April I was pleased to welcome Sir David Omand to the on the excellent progress of recent years to deliver another Board as an independent Non-Executive Director.
David brings set of record results.
to the Board a keen intellect and a wealth of experience in strategic thinking in domestic and international affairs at the highest levels.
Creating value for shareholders I am fortunate to have rejoined Babcock at such an exciting At the time of the forthcoming AGM in July, Dipesh Shah will time in its development.
Since I first joined the Board in 1996, be retiring from the Board, having been a Non-Executive I have witnessed an incredible transformation in the fortunes Director since 1999.
On 1 April 2009, he stood down from the of the Group.
Remuneration Committee, of which he had been Chairman, the Audit and Risk Committee and Nominations Committee.
In 2001, my predecessor Gordon Campbell put into action I would like to thank Dipesh for his dedication and considerable a clear strategy to create a leading engineering support contribution to the Companys success over the past 10 years.
services company, a strategy that has been executed to deliver continuous growth over the intervening period.
Justin Crookenden has taken over from Dipesh as Chairman Through a series of carefully selected strategic acquisitions, of the Remuneration Committee.
major contract wins and strong organic growth, not only has On behalf of the Board I would also like to thank all our Babcock been able to transform its financial performance but employees for their efforts and commitment.
Without their it has signicantly strengthened its business base.
I would like hard work this year we would not have been able to deliver to thank Gordon personally, and on behalf of the Board, for all yet another set of excellent financial results.
We acknowledge that he did as Chairman to create the business we have today.
the vital role our employees play in the continuing success We have successfully built on the skills and expertise within of our business and we will do everything we possibly can our business to become a leading player in our key market to ensure Babcock is a rewarding place to work.
sectors, all of which the Board believes have good long-term growth prospects.
We have established a reputation for working Dividend in long-term partnerships with our customers to deliver the The Board of Babcock has always been committed to creating efficiencies and cost effective solutions they are seeking.
sustainable value for our shareholders and I believe we have Gordon and the Executive team created a strong and dynamic a business that will be able to continue this excellent track company and I strongly believe we can continue to build record.
This year we are reporting a 25% increase in continuing on this: even in these more challenging economic times.
earnings per share to 41.90 pence per share 2008: 33.40 pence per share.
As a result of this continuing growth in earnings and reecting our confidence in the Companys future prospects, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 10.40 pence per share 2008: 8.20 pence per share, an increase of 25% giving a total dividend for the year of 14.40 pence per share 2008: 11.50 pence per share.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, the dividend will be paid on 7 August 2009, to shareholders on the register at close of business on 10 July 2009.
The Board believes Babcock has excellent prospects.
The 5.7 billion order book gives us excellent visibility and we look forward to another year of progress.
We are focused on Mike Turner CBE Chairman delivering long-term value for our shareholders by establishing leading positions in each of our chosen markets.
