qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 11:36 Page 6 | 6 OVERVIEW: BUSINESS REVIEW Chairmans statement Xstratas management and employees have successfully cut costs and repositioned the Group to benefit from economic recovery.
from the industrialising countries offset the full impact of recession in the OECD economies.
In early 2010, there is much speculation about the short-term direction of exchange-traded commodity prices and the sustainability of Chinese demand.
Volatility is also an increasingly prevalent aspect of our markets, particularly for traded commodities which have become a recognised investment class, and this is unlikely to reduce in the medium term.
Nonetheless, we remain confident that the medium-term fundamentals underpinning the outlook for commodities are compelling.
Export industries within China will require a recovery in the US and other Western economies to return to strong growth in the near term and the outlook for the OECD remains more subdued for now.
But Chinas relentless industrialisation programme and investment in domestic infrastructure will continue to provide a bedrock of demand for Xstratas Willy Strothotte products, which are particularly geared to the construction and electricity Chairman sectors.
Restocking has not yet fully taken place in many industrial sectors following the very rapid destocking events of late 2008 and early 2009 and we expect this to provide some support for commodities in the near term, before a sustainable global recovery takes hold.
2009 commenced amidst extremely challenging circumstances for our A supply shortage now seems very likely in a number of commodities and industry, with ongoing volatility and uncertainty over the short-term it is increasingly difficult to identify sufficient new sources of supply to full economic outlook.
Against this background, Xstratas robust operational anticipated levels of future demand, particularly in commodities such as and financial results are commendable and demonstrate the significant copper.
Even before the financial crisis, a dearth of major projects and the efforts undertaken by management to reduce operating costs, restructure declining production prole of existing operations contributed to a tight operations and conserve cash.
Throughout the downturn, the full value outlook for mined supply.
Due to the downturn, many projects have been of our portfolio of organic growth projects was preserved and these delayed further or suspended and difficulties in obtaining nancing have options are now being progressed to meet rising demand.
In addition to contributed to the cancellation or postponement of exploration programmes, record production in a number of commodities, over half a billion dollars particularly those conducted by smaller mining companies.
Many major of real cost savings were achieved and the Groups financial position was projects are also located in increasingly complex operating environments substantially strengthened through a rights issue in the first half and a with associated pressures on development timelines, permitting and the recovery in operating cash ows in the second half.
increasingly important requirement to gain and maintain a broader social In view of the major rights issue in the first quarter of 2009, the final licence to operate that often lead to higher costs and longer lead times.
In 2008 and interim 2009 dividends were suspended and in my report last sum, your Board continues to hold a strong conviction that the supply of year, I set out the Boards commitment to recommence dividend payments commodities will fall short of demand.
This view underpins our investment as soon as possible, while maintaining a prudent capital structure.
I am in Xstratas organic growth programme that will deliver significant additional pleased to report that the Groups robust performance in 2010 and the and lower cost volumes at a time when we expect supply to be tight and Boards confidence in the medium-term outlook for Xstrata have enabled demand to continue to grow.
us to propose a final dividend of 8 cents per share for payment in respect Strategy of 2009, marking a resumption of a progressive dividend policy.
It is very satisfying to see Xstrata reach maturity as a major mining Commodity markets company, after the consistent application of a strategy to deliver Stimulus spending by several major governments, notably China, industry-leading returns to our shareholders in a sustainable manner prompted a recovery in commodity markets during 2009 and demand over the past eight years since IPO.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p01-07 AW.
qxd:Layout 1 19 3 10 09:43 Page 7 7 Xstrata is now entering into another exciting period of its development.
We However, sometimes we do not meet our own high standards and I will continue to assess opportunities to add value to shareholders through am saddened to report that in 2009, nine people lost their lives while acquisitions, but the Groups pipeline of expansionary projects is providing working at Xstratas operations or projects.
We simply must do better an internal engine of growth that is to a greater extent within our control.
to prevent fatalities and improving safety performance remains of the Construction is under way at a number of projects with many further utmost importance to Xstratas Board and management.
As usual, investment decisions expected this year and next.
The Board carefully a comprehensive Sustainability Report is published separately from the assesses each project brought for approval against the requirement to Annual Report and key sustainability risks, strategy and performance deliver robust returns on conservative long-run prices, to reduce operating data are also provided throughout this report.
costs compared to current production and in the light of anticipated market Governance conditions and our ability to manage the associated risks.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM in May 2009, Robert MacDonnell Xstratas approach to developing projects is in line with its overall retired from the Board and Peter Hooley was elected by shareholders devolved management model which emphasises accountability at to join the Board as an independent non-executive director.
Dr Con the operational level.
The responsibility for each project rests with the Fauconnier will be proposed for election at the AGM in May 2010 as appropriate commodity business management team, so that the team an independent non-executive director.
Dr Fauconnier has particularly responsible for building the project is the team that will also eventually extensive experience of the mining industry and the Board is confident run the project once it commissions.
Operational management is that if elected, his expertise will be of significant value to Xstrata.
encouraged to nd innovative ways to manage capital costs and develop In addition, Paul Hazen has indicated that he will retire from the Board projects more efficiently and the Board has been impressed with the at the AGM in May.
Paul has served as a director on the Xstrata plc Board progress being made in particular at the Koniambo project and at our since the initial public offering in 2002 and I thank him on behalf of the range of copper projects to deliver on this objective.
Xstrata also benets Board and Xstrata management for his commitment and contribution to from a cadre of senior executives within its commodity businesses who Xstrata during his tenure.
have extensive experience of developing major projects and are providing invaluable oversight and expertise to our expansion programme.
The Boards annual assessment of its effectiveness included a review by every director of the effectiveness of the Board committees and structure and an To realise this extensive growth from within the portfolio, your Board individual director appraisal.
In general the evaluation demonstrated that the recently approved a budget and business plan which anticipates Board is functioning effectively but a number of useful recommendations substantial levels of capital spending over the next three years without were identied from this process, including the decision to transfer the any material increase in debt levels.
Our investment in growth will see primary responsibility for risk management from the Audit Committee to production volumes rise by around 50% over current levels to deliver the full Board.
In 2010, an external evaluation of the Board will be conducted, additional volumes of low-cost predominantly coal, copper and nickel in line with our commitment to conduct an external evaluation every three production into an increasingly supply-constrained environment.
A comprehensive corporate governance report is provided on pages Sustainability 108 to 115 of this report.
Xstratas objective is to create value for its shareholders in a sustainable Conclusion manner, minimising our environmental impact, working in collaboration Xstratas management and employees have successfully cut costs, with communities and other groups and prioritising the health and safety restructured operations and repositioned the Group to benefit from of our workforce over production or profits.
economic recovery in our key markets.
From a robust financial position, Our Business Principles and commitment to sustainable development Xstrata is poised to deliver substantial volume growth, attractive returns have provided an important touchstone for the Group during the and further cost reductions from the development of its organic growth recent recession.
These principles and our Sustainable Development pipeline.
2010 may well see short-term volatility in economic conditions framework have guided the way in which we engage with employees arising from the withdrawal of stimulus spending and various economies and contractors when difficult decisions over redundancies have to efforts to correct imbalances in advance of a full global recovery.
We have taken a risk-based approach to reducing capital these near-term risks seem unlikely to disrupt a full global recovery in expenditure and costs, to ensure that we do so responsibly, without due course and the markets for our products remain highly attractive, sacrificing safety, environmental performance or operational integrity.
with supply shortages likely in a number of commodities and demand Our investment in community initiatives has continued throughout 2009, set to remain robust over the medium term.
In view of this encouraging enabling us to invest around $65 million in projects that directly benefit outlook, the Board remains confident that Xstrata will continue to deliver the communities in which we operate.
superior returns to its shareholders.
Our ability to manage environmental performance, work in partnership with communities and governments and demonstrate a broader benefit from our presence is all the more important as we enter into a phase of significant organic growth.
We aim to run our operations and develop new projects in a manner that creates lasting economic and social benets for the countries and communities in which we operate, protecting the environment to the greatest extent possible and ensuring Willy Strothotte that safety standards are of the highest level wherever we operate.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 11:39 Page 8 | 8 OVERVIEW: BUSINESS REVIEW In this section Market 10 Chief Executives report 16 Our business An overview of the markets in which we 18 Our products operate and our competitive environment.
20 Competitive environment 22 Market overview 25 Strategy 30 Key performance indicators Key points 36 Principal risks and uncertainties Government-led scal and economic stimulus initiatives were of a scale not previously seen Subdued demand from OECD nations for commodities was partially offset by continued demand from industrialising countries The downturn highlighted Chinas position as a dominant commodity consumer Encouraging medium-term outlook for Xstratas products underpins Xstratas strategy of delivering substantial volume growth from its organic growth pipeline See page 22 for more information.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p08-09 AW.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 11:39 Page 9 9 Strategy Core strategy Key performance Risks indicators Our core strategy is to create value through Xstratas Executive Committee and Board We regularly review and publicly report the growth and asset improvement for our owners measure progress against strategy by monitoring principal risks and uncertainties which may in a sustainable manner.
a range of financial and non-financial KPIs.
affect our ability to deliver our strategy effectively, the potential impact on our business and the controls in place to mitigate these risks.
Key points Key points Key points Our decentralised management model gives Real cost savings of $501 million achieved, A value-driven approach to risk management maximum responsibility and accountability representing 5% of Xstratas operating base and a structured and comprehensive risk to our commodity businesses, within a Year-on-year improvements in injury management system has been implemented dened governance structure frequency rates across the Group An attractive portfolio of assets that are Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Each business and corporate function diversied through location and product fell by 10% and 7% respectively undertakes a comprehensive annual risk review A world-class sustainable framework which as part of an ongoing process for identifying, governs our businesses in achieving our evaluating and managing significant risks aim for industry-leading health, safety Sustainable development risks are assessed, and environmental performance and evaluated, mitigated or managed at every stakeholder engagement stage of an operations lifecycle See page 25 for more information.
See page 30 for more information.
See page 36 for more information.
