DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS LETTER BAE Systems continues to build successfully on its position as one of the worlds largest defence companies.
Strong operating performance Broadly-based portfolio of businesses Clearly defined strategy Embedding Group-wide ethical business culture Global settlement of regulatory investigations Dick Olver Chairman 2 www.
com 2 The composition of the Board and its committees continues to evolve.
25 DIVIDEND PER SHARE PENCE In August, the Group announced that Sir Nigel Rudd, a non-executive 46.5 20 director, would retire from the BAE Systems plc Board with effect from 16.0p 31 December 2009.
Carl Symon, a non-executive director, has been 15 2008: 14.5p appointed chairman of the Boards remuneration committee in place 16.0 14.5 of Sir Nigel.
Phil Carroll, also a non-executive director, will retire at this 12.8 10 years Annual General Meeting.
I would like to thank Nigel and Phil for the 11.3 10.3 valuable contribution they have both made to the Board.
To ensure that 5 we maintain the necessary range of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, two new non-executive directors, Paul Anderson and 0 Nick Rose, have recently joined the Board.
05 06 07 08 09 The Group announced the resignation of Walt Havenstein in June.
Walt was a director of BAE Systems plc, and Chief Operating Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. Linda Hudson was appointed as Walts successor in October.
BAE Systems continues to build successfully on its position as one of Following consultation with members of the Board, the nominations the worlds largest, and most geographically diverse, defence companies.
committee proposed that my office as a non-executive director and The Group comprises a broadly-based portfolio of businesses focused, chairman of the Board be extended until May 2013 subject to 1 through a clearly defined strategy, on the provision of defence, security shareholder approval.
and aerospace capabilities in its global home markets.
This strategy is The performance of the business reflects the valuable work performed delivering good results from the Groups operations.
by our highly dedicated workforce in support of our customers and, in Although constrained by weakened economies, defence and security particular, those who work to maintain the security of ourselves and are expected to remain a priority focus for governments across our home others at home and around the globe.
It was particularly gratifying to markets.
We will continue to seek growth in value for shareholders, but see the efforts of two of our 106,900 people recognised through formal we are not complacent as to the challenges of the near term.
Recognising citations, including George Thompson, Business Development Director, the economic difficulties facing many of our customers, BAE Systems will BAE Systems Surface Ships, who was made an Officer of the Order of continue to work closely with its customers to address their increasingly the British Empire OBE for services to the shipbuilding industry, and complex and often urgent requirements in the most cost-effective and Glen Chappelle, a recently retired project manager with Global Combat affordable way.
Systems in Glascoed, who was made a Member of the Order of the British Empire MBE for services to the defence industry and to On 5 February 2010, the Company announced a global settlement with industrial heritage.
the UK Serious Fraud Office and the US Department of Justice, which concluded the lengthy investigations commenced by those two authorities Complementing this external recognition, we have for some years in 2004 and 2007, respectively.
operated a highly successful scheme for employees within BAE Systems, the Chairmans Award for Innovation.
The scheme now generates over Pursuant to the agreement with the Department of Justice, the Company two thousand entries annually, encouraging and recognising innovation agreed to plead guilty to one charge of conspiring to make false across the Group.
statements to the US government relating to certain regulatory filings and undertakings.
The Company agreed to pay a fine of $400m 248m and BAE Systems is a conservatively managed business with a large order make additional commitments to the Department of Justice concerning book and long-term visibility across a large part of its broad business its ongoing compliance.
Under the agreement with the Serious Fraud base.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 9.6p making Office, the Company agreed to plead guilty to one charge of breach of a total of 16.0p for the year, an increase of 10% over 2008.
At this duty to keep accounting records in relation to payments made to a former level, the annual dividend is covered 2.5 times by underlying earnings marketing adviser in connection with the sale of a radar system by the 2008 2.6 times.
Subject to shareholder approval at the 2010 Annual Company to Tanzania in 1999.
The Company agreed in relation to this General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 1 June 2010 to holders matter to pay an agreed penalty of 30m comprising a fine to be of ordinary shares registered on 23 April 2010. determined by the Court with the balance paid as a charitable payment for the benefit of Tanzania.
The Company very much regrets and accepts full responsibility for these past shortcomings.
These settlements enable the Company to deal finally with significant legacy issues.
In recent years, the Company has systematically enhanced its compliance policies and processes with a view to ensuring that the Company is as widely recognised for responsible conduct as it is for high quality products and advanced technologies.
Dick Olver Chairman We continue to work to establish the highest standards of governance in BAE Systems, and in this report, we describe the processes and assurance that underpin our approach see pages 78 to 84.
I am pleased to report that work to embed the highest standards of responsible business conduct across the Group has progressed well, including an accelerated implementation of the Woolf Committee recommendations.
1 FOR MORE INFORMATION 2 FOR THE CURRENT p10 ON OUR STRATEGY p76 COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 3
