Group overview availability of financial credit quickly became a full scale international recession.
The housing market in Britain was particularly hard hit during the first half of the Groups financial year as deteriorating economic conditions were coupled with rapidly declining customer confidence and severe constraints on the availability of mortgage finance.
In particular, the withdrawal by lenders of many higher loan to value mortgages has significantly affected the first time buyer market.
House prices across Britain, including for the new build sector, fell sharply.
For the Group, this was most acutely felt towards the end of the 2008 calendar year as it sought to reduce stock levels in a difficult market.
During the second half of the financial year, sales prices began to show some signs of stabilisation reflecting historically low interest rates and a more limited supply of housing in both the second hand and new build market.
Chairmans statement The position, however, remains fragile with limited visibility: a sustained recovery of volumes and prices will depend on the This has been an immensely difficult year for the improved availability of mortgage finance.
housebuilding sector with the industry experiencing a The Groups response material and sudden fall off in customer demand driven Responding to the dramatic decline of the market has been an immense challenge for by a structural change in the availability and terms of the Group.
In July and August 2008, the mortgage finance, decline in house prices and a loss of Group arranged a refinancing and amended consumer confidence in light of the prevailing economic its financial covenants.
Sharp reductions in selling prices in the autumn led to an uncertainty.
As a result, the Group, along with other impairment of 499.5m against the value housebuilders, experienced a significant fall in both the of land and work in progress during the year, of which 494.9m was recognised volume and value of the homes that it sold.
Against this backdrop, the Group has of price stabilisation and improved customer With prices reset across the business in continued to focus on the clear set of priorities sentiment.
The Group has seen higher sales January 2009, the Group has been able to already established of driving sales, reducing rates, fewer cancellations and levelling of improve sales rates to reduce stock levels costs and generating cash with the objective prices.
The Group does not, however, expect further, enabling it to manage its working of reducing debt.
The Group has made good to see a sustained improvement in trading capital more efficiently.
progress in all these areas.
conditions until the availability of mortgage finance improves further.
The combination of this tight control of At the same time, the Group has sought to work in progress and sales generation has ensure that it has the capability to respond to The housing market contributed to the reduction in the Groups any recovery in the market.
The initial signs of During the financial year the magnitude of net debt by 373.7m over the course of the stabilisation seen at the start of 2009 have the economic downturn became apparent.
financial year to 1,276.9m at 30 June 2009. continued, underpinned by a greater degree What started as a sharp contraction in the 02 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Group overview | Chairmans statement Cost reduction has also continued to be a His successor, David Thomas, who joined survey.
In terms of construction excellence, priority.
Whilst many of the savings the Group the Group in July 2009 from his combined the Group had another year of outstanding has generated have come through reductions role as Deputy Chief Executive and Finance achievement in the National House-Building in supplier and employee costs, structural Director at The GAME Group plc, is an Council Pride In The Job quality awards.
changes in the Groups cost base have also extremely able replacement and I am been achieved through actions such as delighted that the Company has been able to Whilst the timing and extent of any market the closure of operating divisions.
The attract a Group Finance Director of his calibre.
recovery remain uncertain, these strengths Group is now a more efficient organisation, and the reduced cost base now in place will positioning it better to respond when After seven years on the Board, Michael enhance the Groups ability to take advantage customer demand increases.
Pescod stepped down in December 2008 of any such recovery.
and the Board is particularly grateful for his I recognise that many of the decisions that wise counsel during his tenure, latterly as the Proposed Placing and Rights Issue the Group has made in the year have Senior Independent Director.
This role has The Board is today announcing a fully adversely affected its employees: whilst been assumed by Bob Davies who originally underwritten Placing and Rights Issue to that is something I very much regret it was joined the Board in May 2004.
The Company raise gross proceeds of approximately necessary to ensure that the Group protected is also pleased to welcome to the Board 720m, together with amended financing its core business during the downturn.
Tessa Bamford whose appointment as a arrangements which will come into effect Non-Executive Director was announced upon successful completion of the Placing I remain immensely impressed by the Groups on 30 June 2009.
The Board expects and Rights Issue.
The Directors expect the people who are dedicated to achieving her experience in finance and business Placing and Rights Issue will substantially excellence in the housebuilding industry.
development to be a great asset to the Group.
strengthen the Groups balance sheet and Their determination during these exceptionally reduce financial indebtedness.
The proceeds difficult economic circumstances is a great Dividend raised will enable the Group to develop its credit to them.
The Board is hugely The Board suspended dividend payments in existing sites and better position it to take appreciative that the Groups employees have June 2008 as part of its cash conservation advantage of appropriate land purchasing worked so hard to meet the demands placed policy.
The Board remains focused on opportunities.
The amended financing upon them in these challenging times.
strengthening the balance sheet and arrangements are expected to allow the conserving cash.
The existing terms of Group to take advantage of opportunities that Corporate responsibility the Groups committed bank facilities and may arise in a recovering market, as well as to The Board remains committed to the private placement notes impose certain provide an appropriate alternative framework, principles of corporate responsibility and restrictions on the payment of dividends.
despite the downturn in the market, it remains In light of these restrictions no final dividend convinced that responsible business practices will be paid in respect of the financial year are fundamental to the future success of the ended 30 June 2009.
The Group is pleased that it has been 23 September 2009 able to progress its corporate responsibility The Board is committed to reinstating the strategies in the key areas of health and payment of dividends and will do so when it safety, the environment, customer care, becomes appropriate and permissible to do so.
employees and the communities where it works as part of the normal day-to-day Priorities business operations of the Group, and Barratt Developments PLC aspires to be the expects that this will position the Group better leading housebuilder in Britain with a focus to respond to any recovery in the market.
on efficient production, sales and marketing, land and planning, becoming the partner of Board choice and the quality of its people.
It was with regret that, in January this year, the Group announced that Mark Pain, the Group Despite the difficult economic backdrop the Finance Director, had decided to step down Group is continuing to invest in these key from the Board.
Mark served the Company areas.
There are tangible results being with distinction and the Board wish him well achieved most notably that the Group is the with his future career.
only national volume housebuilder to be credited as Four Star in the Home Builders Federation 4th annual customer satisfaction Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 03
