10 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 cHaiRmans statement Results Despite another extremely difficult year, we made a trading profit of 8.4m 2008: 19.5m.
We also generated a positive operational I am pleased to report that the property market is showing some cash flow, and reduced gearing from 105% to 80%.
signs of recovery, and that your company is in good condition to However, including revaluations and other non-cash items, we benefit from this.
Our finances are in good shape, our Hopper is full incurred a loss after tax for the year of 101.7m 2008: 50.7m.
of opportunities, and we are beginning to find attractively-priced This loss was principally 80.6m incurred in the first half of acquisitions.
the year, since when market conditions and the companys performance have significantly improved.
Over the past twelve months, we have worked extremely hard to strengthen the companys position.
After adjusting for the effect of the equity issue, our net asset value declined by 20% to 200p per share 2008: 251p.
We have refinanced the business with an issue of new equity.
We have renegotiated and improved the covenants on our tRading and valuations banking facilities.
The broad range and regional spread of our activities has enabled us to continue to find business even in difficult market conditions.
We have generated positive operational cash flow through a We achieved property sales of 101m, and have steadily reduced judicious programme of asset sales and a careful control of our stock of unoccupied completed buildings.
However, compared with recent years, we have had a very low We have succeeded in delivering a trading profit and have made level of development activity.
This, together with the absence real progress in our asset management activities.
of any meaningful cash flow from our residential land disposal We have continued to marshal our schemes successfully through programme, has placed more emphasis on the asset management the planning process to ensure a pipeline of future activity and aspect of our business.
One long-term strategic objective has added value.
always been for our recurring income to be sufficient to cover the running and financing costs of the business.
This year that has We have preserved our core team throughout the downturn, proved particularly valuable.
Our team improved the rental income and have consequently retained all of our key capabilities, from our portfolio, in very challenging conditions.
Our valuations at 30th November 2009 represent what I hope is St. Modwens reputation as the UKs leading regeneration specialist the end of a long period of adverse sentiment in the real estate has, if anything, been enhanced by our ability to continue to deliver investment market.
The results for the year include a negative schemes throughout this downturn.
We are now looking forward yield shift on average of 1.4%.
The value of our commercial land to a gradual return to a more normal level of activity in our major has been reduced to reflect the lower values of the developments markets.
that will be undertaken on the land.
The valuation of our residential land was also reduced significantly in the first half of the year, to reflect the depressed housing market.
It is encouraging to note, however, that in this area at least, values had stabilized by the year end and no further write-down was required on our residential land in November.
This is evidenced by four residential land sale transactions that we currently have in solicitors hands, all for prices at or above November carrying values.
Throughout the period of market price deterioration, our strategy of constantly seeking to add value has helped to mitigate the unavoidable market value write-downs.
During the year we Anthony Glossop achieved a number of important planning consents and advanced Chairman the status of several of our key schemes.
Market related adjustments of 134m this year 2008: 129m were offset 16949 24 02 10 Proof 14 16949STMODWEN.
co. uk Below The 6 million innovation centre at longbridge welcomed 11 new occupiers in 2009 and is now almost 100% let.
by added value gains arising from our marshalling and asset management activities of 27m 2008: 65m.
Following these additional consents, we now have more than 20,000 residential plots with planning recognition in our Hopper, and the recovery of the residential market will make an important contribution to the companys future returns.
financing In May we announced a refinancing of the business, comprising new banking covenants and a Firm Placing and Placing and Open Offer of new shares.
I was very pleased with the positive reaction to the equity issue, which attracted a number of significant new investors and which raised 101.6m net of costs.
This new equity finance, together with the relaxation of our banking covenants, enabled us both to reduce our gearing levels and to continue to operate well within our banking covenants despite the prolonged and significant fall in property values.
dividend Your board is not recommending a final dividend for the year, as we believe that the funds are currently better used in the operations of the business.
We anticipate resuming the payment of dividends when we are once again generating net asset value increases.
stRategy The economic downturn caused us to examine closely our business model and strategy: and I am pleased to say that they have not been found wanting.
We have therefore been able to adapt our activities to suit the changing conditions, scaling-back speculative schemes, but continuing to marshal sites for development on the back of pre-let or pre-sold opportunities.
We have also continued to dispose of those mature assets to which we can add no further significant value.
We have been able to nurture our recurring income which now amounts to 43m per annum, by letting voids, by offering flexibility and value for money to tenants, and by retaining those income-producing assets where we felt that investment prices achievable could be improved.
The broad range and regional spread of our business ensured that, whatever activity there was in the market, we have been able to respond to it.
All of this is a strong reaffirmation of our Hopper strategy, which now embraces more than 5,600 acres: regionally structured, prudently financed, with the emphasis on value creation and diversification.
Therefore, despite our focus on cash generation, we have continued to seek, and to find, long-term opportunities for the Hopper.
Our acquisition of an extensive portfolio from BP, following on from last years acquisition of their Llandarcy oil refinery, is a good example 16949 24 02 10 Proof 14 16949STMODWEN.
indd 11 02 03 2010 11:44 12 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 cHaiRmans statement continued of the excellent opportunities we are finding.
The acquisition, With these changes successfully implemented, and the board which was undertaken after considerable due diligence, includes duly strengthened, the next steps in our non-executive succession 566 acres of developable land.
It will be self-financing and will strategy are to seek appropriate candidates for the roles of have a 20-year development horizon that will enable the company Chairman and Senior Independent Director, in time for my to utilise fully its brownfield land remediation expertise.
We retirement and that of Ian Menzies-Gow in 2011.
Ian and I will work also made other significant acquisitions at Exeter, Taunton and to ensure that the process is seamless and that the board will Doncaster, adding a total of 139 acres of developable land, at a continue to function as robustly and effectively as ever during this total cost of 13m.
Looking ahead, I remain confident that St. Modwens strategy is PRosPects valid in the long-term, and will give us the opportunity to provide Property market prospects still remain uncertain.
The economy sector-leading returns to shareholders once again.
may be slowly emerging from recession, but business confidence remains fragile, with continued pressure on rents and occupancy diRectoRs and emPloyees levels.
Achieving the results for the year in the current climate is a tribute to the quality and strength of the team at all levels in the However, St. Modwen is well prepared for such conditions: our organisation.
My thanks go to everyone for the efforts they financial position is sound: our business model will increasingly have made.
create value: and we are in a good position to seize attractive opportunities to add further to the Hopper.
We are currently in the process of making a number of changes to the composition of the board, as we continue to implement our As yet our portfolio has not seen the resurgence in values long-term board succession strategy.
experienced in other parts of the property market.
But nevertheless I believe that we are now beginning to see important During the year Christopher Roshier and Mary Francis both signs of improvement.
stepped down as non-executive directors: Christopher, having completed 22 years service, including a long spell as chairman of I am confident that 2010 will see the company returning to growth the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director: and Mary, in profits and NAV.
having completed 4 years service, for most of which she was chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Paul Rigg will also step down as non-executive director, having completed 6 years service.
Anthony Glossop Chairman I would like to thank them all for the valued contribution that 5th February 2010 they have made to the guidance of the company during their time with us.
trading profit excludes non-cash items such as revaluations and mark-to-market adjustments We have been fortunate to find excellent replacements in net asset value per share adjusted as if the equity issue had taken place Katherine Innes Ker and Lesley James, the latter of whom has on 1st December 2007 taken the chair of the Remuneration Committee.
We have also recruited Reeta Stokes as Company Secretary, assuming the role previously covered on a temporary basis by Tim Haywood, our Finance Director.
co. uk Below in April 2009, st. modwen was selected as preferred developer for the 270 million regeneration of firepool in Taunton.
