UNITE UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 08 Chairmans statement Introduction In my first set of full year results as Chairman of UNITE, I am delighted to report a robust financial performance for the business against a backdrop of the most challenging financial conditions I have ever experienced.
Much of 2009 was characterised by considerable uncertainty.
At UNITE we responded carefully and decisively to the conditions we faced.
We focused on moving the Groups operating business into profit, selling non-core assets at sensible prices, managing our borrowings and securing growth capital from a range of sources only when we felt the time was appropriate.
In addition, we have carefully evaluated and refined our business model in the face of the emerging market conditions to ensure that our business is best placed to continue to deliver growth.
Financial results Increasing balance sheet flexibility and moving our operating business into profit were our two key financial objectives for 2009.
Phil White Both were successfully achieved.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director The Group reported a net portfolio contribution of 0.6 million for the year, a significant improvement over the loss of 5.4 million UNITE has secured an enviable market leading recorded at this level in 2008.
This improvement was mainly position in the UK student accommodation attributable to strong like-for-like rental growth 9.7% and the sector.
In doing so, it has developed skills and successful reduction of operating costs.
This was achieved despite the dilutive impact of the Groups expertise that leave it well placed to succeed effective ownership share of its operating portfolio income in the coming years.
reducing from 54% to 50% as a result of the full year effect of assets being sold to USAF in late 2008: Group adjusted net debt fell from 531 million to 390 million and adjusted gearing from 131% to 92%, as a result of a programme of asset sales, the establishment of a joint venture with Oasis Capital Bank OCB to build out our 2010 development programme and the Groups successful Placing and Open Offer.
Importantly, the Group was not forced to raise capital at a time when it would have been significantly dilutive to shareholders and all asset sales and capital raising initiatives were secured at prices which minimised any dilutive impact.
The Groups adjusted fully diluted NAV per share fell by 13% during the year to 265 pence 2008: 306 pence restated for the impact of the Placing and Open Offer in October, predominantly as a result of rising yields causing a decline in the valuation of the Groups investment and development portfolios in spite of the strong rental growth secured.
Investment yields for direct let student accommodation, which accounts for 88% of the Groups investment portfolio, have yet to show the extent of compression evident across the broader commercial property sector.
As a result of this, and the fact that the majority of rental growth tends to be booked in the first half of each year, the Groups net asset value was broadly flat in the second half of 2009 save for two one-off items, each of which has been previously disclosed to shareholders: Exeter Trust House, Exeter UNITE UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 09 10 million 6pps of swap break costs incurred following the sale It is important to note that investor demand for diversified exposure of a portfolio of assets to USAF in December and the repayment to well managed direct let assets remains strong, as evidenced by of associated senior debt.
Following this, the Groups average USAFs successful 167 million capital raise in December.
In 2010, cost of investment debt reduced to 5.6%.
with its significant investment capacity, USAF is likely to be one of very few large scale purchasers of purpose built direct let student 4 million 3pps of costs expensed in the second half relating accommodation assets.
Much of the historic investment in the to the final element of the Blueprint restructuring and the cost student accommodation sector has been funded with high levels of overcapacity at UMS, our modular manufacturing facility.
We expect the lack of available high leverage today to After taking these items into account, adjusted diluted net asset restrict investment activity in the near term and possibly lead to value declined by 11 pence per share from the restated position buying opportunities for USAF and or UNITE later in 2010. at 30 June 2009 of 276 pence per share.
We are keen to see how this unfolds before we form a firmer view on investment yields.
The student accommodation market The occupational market Overview UK student numbers continued to grow in 2009, driven by strong The student accommodation market demonstrated remarkable growth in accepted applications from both UK and international resilience throughout 2009, despite the wider challenges faced by students, up 5% and 10% respectively.
This provides a solid the UK economy.
Following record applications, full-time student background for sector fundamentals although regional variations numbers increased by approximately 50,000 to 1.55 million whilst are continuing to emerge and a good understanding of these is the net new supply of purpose built bed spaces was restricted to critical to ongoing success.
UNITE achieved 96.5% occupancy for approximately 9,000 source: King Sturge, the demand-supply the 2009 10 academic year, with like-for-like rental growth of 9.7%.
gap in purpose built student accommodation is widening.
As at the end of February 2010, UNITE had reservations in place These fundamentals contributed to another strong rental growth for the 2010 11 academic year across 59% of its portfolio, performance across UNITEs portfolio 9.7% and helped offset compared to 63% at the same time in 2009.
Part of this lower yield expansion of 50bps over the year.
reservations level is attributable to a higher direct let weighting in the portfolio 88% vs 85% in 2008 but we are also seeing The investment market evidence of consumers delaying buying decisions.
However, with In common with all parts of the UK commercial property sector, the significant demand-supply imbalance still prevalent in student the value of student accommodation assets fell during the first half accommodation and UNITEs proven sales and marketing of 2009.
However, the fall in values was far less marked than in capability, we believe that this will reverse substantially in the other sectors as strong rental growth helped offset the impact of coming months.
As a result, between January and June 2009, UNITEs Looking forward there are a number of planned or potential investment portfolio fell in value by 2%, compared to a decline in changes likely to have an impact on the future occupational market.
general commercial property values of 13%, as measured by IPD.
These relate mainly to university and student funding.
In the case of In the broader commercial property sector, asset values showed university funding, cuts amounting to 450 million have already been clear signs of stabilisation in the third quarter before recovering announced and more may follow.
On balance, in light of the Groups strongly in the fourth quarter, driven by sharp compression strong reputation, specialist expertise and financial strength, we see in yields rather than rental growth.
In the student sector, similar this as presenting a new opportunity as universities increasingly seek characteristics were evident for assets with long term lease ways to release capital from their estates or provide non-core agreements in place, where revenue risk is effectively underwritten services, such as accommodation, more efficiently, by seeking a by the university.
Whilst the Groups focus on direct let assets has solid and experienced financial and operational partner.
allowed it to deliver annual rental growth, the recovery in values has The future of student funding is the subject of the Browne review, so far been less pronounced in direct let student accommodation, which is scheduled to report later in 2010.
Many commentators with the result that UNITEs portfolio value grew less strongly than expect this to lead to a further rise in tuition fees.
A rise in tuition the broader property market in the second half of 2009, with the fees, were it to occur, may have some impact on domestic average NOI yield moving in only 10bps to 6.7% from 6.8% at university applications.
However, with applications currently well 30 June.
We consider this an undemanding valuation, particularly in excess of available places and the continued high demand from as the yield shift was mostly attributable to an increased London international students to study in the UK, we consider it unlikely weighting in the investment portfolio.
that overall student numbers will fall in the near term.
As a result, the demand-supply imbalance for purpose built accommodation is likely to remain significant.
9.7% like-for-like rental growth Introduction 0111 UNITE UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 10 Chairmans statement continued locations outside London where UNITE has an existing Our strategy operational presence and we intend to pursue these as part of UNITE has secured an enviable market leading position in the UK a balanced development strategy.
Our plans remain to develop student accommodation sector.
In doing so, it has developed skills 4,000 to 5,000 new bed spaces for delivery and occupation and expertise that leave it well placed to succeed in the coming between 2012 and 2014. years and extend its market-leading credentials: Proactive asset management of existing student In-depth knowledge of the sector on a national and accommodation investments local level, informed by detailed research, which helps it We estimate that the wider student accommodation sector to focus investment on locations that display the most is likely to deliver rental growth in the region of 2% to 3% per attractive fundamentals: annum in the medium term.
By focusing carefully on the quality A professional and scalable operating platform from which it and location of its investment and operational portfolio, can deliver a consistent level of customer service and derive refurbishing and upgrading selected facilities profitably and economies of scale as its portfolio of properties grows: further developing its market-leading on-line sales and marketing platform, the Group is well placed to outperform this sector A strong financial foundation, based upon a diverse range of capital sources, which has enabled the Group to grow without benchmark significantly.
We believe annual rental growth of 3% to 5% to be achievable.
excessive reliance on any one source of capital and to have navigated the turbulent financial market conditions of the past Acquisition and repositioning of existing student two years: accommodation assets The potential to lock in higher returns through its developer Following its successful 167 million capital raise in December, and co-investing manager business model.
USAF provides USAF now has sufficient investment capacity to consider the its investors with access to a highly diversified, professionally acquisition of non-UNITE properties.
Such acquisitions will managed portfolio in a resilient sector and provides UNITE with be restricted to assets where UNITE is able to add value by a dedicated, well funded purchaser of its completed and let applying its operating platform and expertise and may include development assets, and an ongoing management fee stream.
assets where existing owners are forced to consider disposal Looking forward, we have determined that the significantly different as a result of unresolved financing concerns.
Initially in 2010 the Group is seeking to acquire up to 100 million of such market environment in which we are now operating requires a further evolution of our strategy and business model.
UNITE will benefit from these acquisitions through its significant minority stake in USAF and increased activity, traditionally our primary source of growth, will continue to provide attractive opportunities but we also recognise there is the management fees.
potential to grow our business in other ways, particularly as our Working in partnership with universities to develop, upgrade and operating platform is more scalable than our balance sheet.
manage their on-campus accommodation We have identified four drivers of growth in the medium term: At present we are aware of approximately 20,000 bed spaces Targeted development activity where universities are considering outsourcing and we expect this number to rise further during 2010 as funding cuts prompt Following our successful Placing and Open Offer in October 2009, we have made solid progress in identifying new alternative strategies.
UNITE would source the majority of capital for such opportunities from third parties, co-investing a smaller development sites in London, securing contractual or exclusive positions on three sites that we expect to deliver approximately amount itself and acting and receiving fees as property and asset manager for the investing entity.
With our proven track 900 bed spaces for occupation in 2012 and 2013, in line with our target returns.
The market for good development sites in record in raising third party capital into the sector and our scalable operating platform, we are ideally placed to provide London has proven to be extremely competitive and our strategy has been, and will remain, to pursue off-market transactions valuable solutions to universities in this area.
and avoid competitive bidding situations in order to protect We believe that the above multi-tiered strategy will allow the Group shareholder returns.
Additionally opportunities which we believe to increase both profitability and net asset value in a balanced way offer good value are beginning to emerge in a small number of in the coming years.
12m annualised cost savings UNITE UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 11 to see significant changes in the ways universities approach their Dividend accommodation requirements, the demands of students as In light of market conditions and the Groups decision to invest in consumers and the nature of competition in the sector.
I am development opportunities, we are not proposing a dividend for confident that our strategy anticipates and understands these the year.
We will consider re-instating the dividend as soon as the changes and, as a result, we are well placed to succeed.
business is generating a meaningful level of profits such that any We have four key priorities for 2010, closely aligned to our strategy: dividend would be properly covered.
To deliver solid rental growth and occupancy across our portfolio People and organisation for the 2010 11 academic year, through the continued Over the past two years we have pursued and recently application of our market leading on-line platform and proactive completed a large scale programme of business change.
We have asset management and, as a result, grow profits.
With demand re-engineered our core business processes, invested in technology supply dynamics still favourable and our unrivalled sector to support these, up-skilled many of our customer-facing roles and expertise, we remain confident of securing annual rental growth invested heavily in training and development to sustain and build in the region of 3% to 5%: on these changes.
As a result, we now have a highly professional To secure a development programme for delivery and and scalable national operating platform: something that I am occupation between 2012 and 2014, with a strong focus confident is unique in our sector and a significant source of on London.
We currently have three sites secured which competitive advantage.
we expect to deliver approximately 900 beds in London for 2012 The financial impact of these changes is impressive, with 12 million or 2013 occupation.
We aim to have 4,000 to 5,000 bed spaces of annual operating cost savings now secured.
However, it is our of development secured by March 2011, of which the significant targeted improvement in customer service quality that will ultimately majority are expected to be in London.
Development profits from be the most important outcome from this initiative and hold most this activity in 2010 are likely to be limited, taking into account the resonance for students, universities and investors.
We expect lead time required to secure planning consents.
We would these results to become evident during 2010 and 2011 as our expect development profits to accrue from 2011 onwards: improvements are embedded.
To acquire, through USAF, high quality existing student The scale of change was considerable, with nearly 350 roles being accommodation investments that the Group can then reposition materially affected and over 1,500 training days being provided and seek to add value.
We expect USAF to acquire up to through our dedicated facility in support of the new organisation.
100 million of such assets during 2010: I am immensely proud of the way this change was planned and To pursue a small number of university partnership opportunities, managed but, most importantly, embraced across the business.
provided that the potential for the Group to add value and secure My thanks to our teams for their continued dedication sustainable profits is clear and properly aligned with our strategy.
With our strategy in place, I believe 2010 will see the Group further We also experienced change at Board level in 2009.
After ten years establish the foundations for long term profitable growth.
of dedicated service and counsel, Geoffrey Maddrell retired as Chairman in May and, at the same time, Nick Porter who founded the Group in 1991 stepped down from his role as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
I am grateful to both Geoffrey and Nick for their enormous contribution to UNITE and for their support to me as incoming Chairman.
Outlook Following its actions in response to extremely challenging market conditions, UNITE has emerged from 2009 as a stronger business with an increased competitive advantage in its specialist sector.
The environment in which UNITE will be operating in the future is fundamentally different to that of the past.
As a result we expect Chalmers Street, Edinburgh Introduction 0111
