BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 02 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGY REPOSITIONED TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF MARKET CONDITIONS RESULTS I am delighted that Berkeley is in In light of these factors and in consultation Berkeley is pleased to announce a pre-tax a position to report these strong with shareholders, Berkeley determined pro t of 120.4 million for the year ended 30 that it was no longer appropriate to both results which demonstrate the value April 2009.
This is 73.9 million less than the of Berkeleys strategy and business acquire new land and commit to return 194.3 million reported last year, a decrease 3 per share to shareholders by January model in all market conditions.
Basic earnings per share are 71.3 of the harsh trading environment, 2014.
As a consequence, in February 2009, pence, a decrease of 37.6% on the 114.2 Berkeley announced the repositioning of in which the value of underlying sales pence reported last year.
reservations was 52% below the historic its strategy and a new capital structure to average, Berkeley is reporting a pre-tax enable it to acquire new land and return Total equity shareholders funds increased pro t of 120.4 million 2008: 194.3 to a more traditional dividend policy, with by 119.9 million to 801.3 million April 2008: million.
Operating margins are 17.8% the commitment to return 3 per share 681.4 million and net assets per share by and there have been no land write-downs.
by January 2014 no longer forming part 51 pence to 615 pence April 2008: 564 pence.
Berkeley ended the year with net cash of its strategy.
Berkeleys shareholders Return on Capital Employed for the year was of 284.8 million April 2008: net debt demonstrated their support for this 20.6%, compared to 29.3% last year with of 4.5 million as a result of strong cash repositioned strategy by subscribing for Berkeley holding 284.8 million of net cash generation from the business and the 6.0 million new shares in a placing that at 30 April 2009 April 2008: Net debt of 49.6 million net proceeds from the raised net proceeds of 49.6 million to 4.5 million.
ensure Berkeley has the right capital share placing completed in March 2009. structure with which to embark on this SUSTAINABILITY next phase.
Berkeley is in tremendous shape, and Sustainability is an embedded part now is the right time to implement the of the development process for Berkeley.
The placing of 6.0 million new shares orderly succession of the Board and put It is a fundamental element of creating in place the right structure for the Group increased Berkeleys issued share capital a high quality environment in which todays for the future.
A further 4.0 million new shares were customers want to live their lives.
Indeed, issued in April 2009 on the vesting of the our focus on brown eld development CORPORATE STRATEGY second tranche of shares under Element 1 and long-term investment in complex The announcement in February 2009 of of the 2004 b LTIP.
Following these events, mixed-use projects re ects our passion the repositioning of Berkeleys strategy 130.9 million shares were in issue at 30 April and commitment to creating a legacy of represents an evolution that is based on 2009.
The final two tranches of Element 1 which we can be proud.
We believe that Berkeleys recognition that the UK residential of the 2004 b LTIP 4.0 million shares each this strategy has given Berkeley a fide nitive are scheduled to vest in September 2009 and property market is cyclical and the operating competitive advantage over our peers.
This model must be exible and always aligned March 2010, respectively, at which point a commitment has not been compromised by total of 16.0 million shares will have vested to the prevailing market conditions.
the current market conditions, as evidenced under this scheme: the first Element of by our externally recognised industryThis time last year Berkeley put forward which was satis ed in part through market leading position on sustainability.
proposals that were agreed by shareholders purchases by the Companys Employee at the August 2008 AGM, to defer the final Bene t Trust in the first half of the year, In April 2008, Berkeley was awarded the UKs payment of 3 per share until 2014 and with the amount represented by tax prestigious Queens Award for Enterprise: use the funds to acquire land.
What no one settled in cash.
This award could have predicted at that time was the recognises companies which have made signi cant worsening of the global banking A further 5.3 million shares will vest in outstanding advances in performance or crisis in September 2008 and the inevitable January 2014, as 3 options, under Part A have a high level of continuous achievement direct impact this had on the feel-good of the 2009 LTIP, approved by shareholders in sustainable development.
We were factor and mortgage availability: both at the April 2009 EGM.
These options replace praised for our strong leadership, promoting critical to the housing market.
For Berkeley best practice in the sector and embedding the 5.3 million shares that were outstanding and other developers this meant reduced under Element 2 of the 2004 b LTIP.
Part B sustainability throughout the entire business visibility of future cash ow and pro t. operations.
In addition, for the second of the 2009 LTIP is represented by options For businesses more generally, it resulted year running, Berkeley ranked first in the over 7.1 million shares with an exercise in a fundamental reassessment of gearing NextGeneration benchmark, a benchmark price of the higher of market value at the and capital structures.
of the Top 20 UK homebuilders overseen date of grant and 8.40 being the price of by a high-pro le committee.
the share placing completed in March 2009.
1 Gunwharf Quays That Berkeley has performed so strongly OUR PEOPLE AND BOARD CHANGES Finance Director.
Karl 44 joined Berkeley in these market conditions is a re ection All successful organisations must evolve in 1996 and currently leads the largest of the qualities embedded within the Berkeley Homes division and chairs the and Berkeley believes that key to its own experienced autonomous management success is the nurturing and development Groups Sustainability and Health & Safety teams that are Berkeleys foundation.
He will join the Main Board of talent from within the organisation.
Most Their determination to succeed and importantly, the cultural values that have led as a Divisional Executive Director.
innovative approach to all challenges and to Berkeleys current position are embedded opportunities is the driving force behind within the Group and its people.
With the The decision to appoint Tony Pidgley Berkeleys success.
It is therefore extremely as Chairman from his current role as foundations well established and a new and pleasing that Berkeley has been able to exciting era beginning for Berkeley, now is Managing Director takes into consideration keep its key teams together and is using the time to put in place the succession that the value to the Group of Tonys extensive the opportunity presented by these market has been carefully planned by the Board experience and pre-eminent standing in the conditions to strengthen them wherever of Berkeley to ensure these fundamentals industry together with his understanding possible in readiness for the return to remain in place.
of the Groups culture and knowledge more normal market conditions.
The continuing and full Following consultation with representatives time commitment of Tony to Berkeley is from our major institutional shareholders, On behalf of the Board and shareholders, welcomed and will allow the business to Berkeley has announced proposed changes we would like again to express our continued deliver its repositioned strategy announced to the Board which will become effective at thanks and appreciation to all those at in February.
The Board has also taken into the Annual General Meeting in September Berkeley for their outstanding contributions consideration the need for the Chairman 2009.
I will step down as Chairman and to the success of the business in these and Managing Director to be able to work assume the role of deputy Chairman and challenging times.
closely and effectively and in Rob Perrins, as an independent Non-executive Director the Board has a natural and the outstanding on the Board.
After 33 years as Managing successor as Managing Director.
Director, Tony Pidgley will become Chairman of Berkeley and Rob Perrins, long identi ed Following these changes, the Board as Tonys successor, will become Managing will comprise a Chairman, five Executive Director.
Rob has been with Berkeley for Directors and four Non-executive Directors.
VICTORIA MITCHELL 15 years: at one time Managing Director As a consequence Berkeley will look to Chairman of Berkeley Homes and, since 2001, the appoint a fifth Non-executive Director Groups Finance Director.
Joining the Board to achieve the balance envisaged by at the AGM will be Nick Simpkin and Karl the Combined Code.
Nick 39 has been with Berkeley since 2002 and has held a number of senior finance positions including Finance Director of St James.
Currently Head of Finance for Berkeley, Nick will be the new R&A R&A PRINT.
indb 03 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:43:07 09:43:07 BUSINESS REVIEW 04 A RELENTLESS ATTENTION TO DETAIL & QUALITY INSIDE AND OUT Imperial Wharf, London R&A R&A PRINT.
