Chairmans Statement The following table provides an analysis of the movement in the NAV per share for the year: Pence NAV per share as at 31 December 2008 85.8 Unrealised increase in valuation of direct property portfolio 2.6 Unrealised increase in valuation of indirect property holdings 0.1 Movement in revenue reserve 1.9 NAV per share as at 31 December 2009 86.6 PropertyPortfolio The total return from the direct property portfolio during the year was 9.3 per cent, significantly outperforming the total return from the benchmark IPD All Quarterly and Monthly valued funds as referred to above.
The portfolio was ranked on the 15th percentile against the benchmark.
The principal reason for this outperformance was the strong John Stephen Chairman returns generated from the portfolios retail warehouse investments.
This was the top performing sector in 2009 and the Companys properties also outperformed the benchmark, reinforcing the quality With signs of improving economic conditions during of the portfolio and emphasising the positive effect the second half of the year and an increase in of good asset management.
The portfolio has a investment activity driven by a demand for income, significant overweight position to South East retail there was a recovery in the UK commercial property properties, which again was an outperforming market in 2009.
The market total return for the year, sector, and where St. Christophers Place Estate, as measured by the Investment Property Databank London W1 remains the dominant property in the IPD All Quarterly and Monthly valued funds, was portfolio, providing a strong weighted contribution to 2.8 per cent.
Total returns in the last two quarters performance.
The portfolios prime West End offices were strong, more than offsetting the falls in the first also outperformed as the demand from international part of the year and reversing the trend of falling investors forced capitalisation rates down.
The values which had been prevalent since the peak of Managers continue to be able to progress valuethe market in June 2007. adding asset management opportunities and during the year successfully completed a number of Against this backdrop the Company performed well, initiatives.
with a net asset value NAV total return for the year of 8.7 per cent.
It is also pleasing to report an As explained in more detail in the Managers increase of 45.2 per cent in the share price, to Review, new properties were purchased during the 90.0p at the end of the year, reflecting a premium of year for an aggregate consideration of 55 million, 3.9 per cent to the NAV of 86.6p per share.
As well as increasing the compares with a discount of 27.7 per cent as at Companys exposure to distribution warehouses, 31 December 2008. these purchases also have the effect of improving the level of dividend cover, counteracting the very low level of interest which had been received on the cash balances held previously.
This investment activity has continued since the end of the year with a further purchase of a small, freehold property on the St. Christophers Place Estate for 2.96 million.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 Chairmans Statement continued The Company sold one of its smaller retail properties The new holding company has more flexibility to subsequent to the year end, at above valuation, for incur borrowings in a manner which may be 8.8 million.
more cost-effective than through the secured bond structure when the market for securitised As well as improving the level of dividend cover, the bonds is weak.
net effect of this investment activity has been a significant reduction in the level of cash balances The new holding company has the ability to which had been built up in previous years when the acquire or merge with other companies or funds Managers were concerned about the outlook for the which may themselves have existing debt.
The new holding companys investment policy Importantly in the current economic environment, the provides it with flexibility to invest in listed Company continues to maintain a low void rate and property companies where the Board believes a low provision for bad debts.
Further details are that it is in the best interests of shareholders to provided in the Managers Review.
It should be noted that that Board does not have any immediate intention to invest in listed property companies.
GroupReconstruction In June 2009, a prospectus and an offer document The new holding company is not subject to the were sent to shareholders containing details of same restrictions as were imposed previously on proposals to introduce a new listed holding the use of any surplus cash to pay dividends, company, now called F&C Commercial Property buy back shares or otherwise return capital to Trust Limited previously called New FCPT Limited, shareholders.
which was incorporated for the purpose of making an offer to acquire all of the issued shares of the Dividends previous listed holding company.
The offer became In accordance with the Boards announcement in unconditional in July 2009 and the shares of the November 2008 that dividends would in future be new holding company were admitted to listing on paid monthly, rather than quarterly, twelve dividends, the Official List of the UKLA and to trading on the each of 0.5p per share, were paid during the year.
main market of the London Stock Exchange.
The annual dividend of 6.0p per share has been Under the offer, shareholders were offered one new maintained since the Companys launch in 2005. share in the new listed holding company for each The Board intends that dividends will continue to be share in the old listed company.
The effect of the paid monthly.
transaction was that, during the year, the company now called F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited The Companys rental flows remained healthy during became the new holding company of the Group the year and, in the latter part of the period, with the same Board of Directors.
benefited from the investment in new properties as described above which yield significantly more than As stated in the offer documentation, the the cash balances which had been held previously.
introduction of the new holding company has the following benefits: Borrowings The Company has borrowings in the form of The new holding company, and any new 230 million Secured Bonds due 2017 which have subsidiaries outside the previous group structure, been assigned an Aaa rating by Moodys Investor do not form part of the security structure for the Services.
The bonds carry interest at a fixed rate of Secured Bonds and are not therefore subject to 5.23 per cent per annum.
In the event that the new holding company As at 31 December 2009, the Company level of raises any new equity, it will have considerable gearing, net of cash, was 18.5 per cent.
This flexibility over whether that cash is used within or compares with 10.3 per cent as at 31 December outside the secured bond structure.
6 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Discount,  During the year the Board also announced the The Company did not buy back any shares during appointment of two independent non-executive the year, and it will seek to renew its share buy Directors, Mr Jonathan Hooley and Mr Chris Russell, back authority at the forthcoming Annual General who both joined the Board on 31 October 2009, Meeting.
and the retirement on the same date of Mr Donald Adamson.
In accordance with the Companys discount policy, an Extraordinary General Meeting was held on The biographies of all the Directors are contained on 1 May 2009 at which a resolution was proposed to page 15. approve the continuation of the Company.
The Board was pleased to announce that the resolution Outlook was passed by shareholders.
Full details of the Although GDP growth resumed in the final quarter of policy are contained on page 24.
2009, the economic recovery is fragile and likely to be long and slow.
Consequently, there is a high  degree of uncertainty about the potential for returns During the year the Board announced an in the commercial property market in the short term.
amendment to the investment management Total return forecasts for 2010 are being revised agreement between the Company and the upwards with double digit total returns now being Managers, such that each party shall be entitled to predicted in the latest Investment Property Forum terminate the agreement on not less than six consensus forecasts.
There may be some slippage months notice.
Previously 12 months notice had for 2011 on concerns about the extent of fiscal and been required.
monetary tightening, the fundamentals of the occupational market and the scope for further yield falls as the yield gap against gilts narrows.
In the BoardComposition longer term, returns are likely to be largely income As a result of the acquisition during the year of the driven with only modest capital growth.
Companys majority shareholder, Friends Provident Group plc, by Resolution Limited, the previous The Board believes that, in this environment, the Chairman of the Board, Mr Peter Niven, who is a Company continues to be relatively well placed, and non-executive director of Resolution Limited, was no that the combination of its quality portfolio, diversity longer considered to be independent under the of tenants, low levels of voids and bad debts and Combined Code.
Mr Niven therefore stepped down continuing property asset management initiatives will as Chairman on 31 October 2009 and, with the all be beneficial to performance over the longer unanimous support of the Board, is continuing as a term.
Director of the Company, subject to annual reelection as a non-independent non-executive Director.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Peter for his valuable contributions to the Company as Chairman since launch, and the Board JohnStephen is looking forward to continuing to benefit from his Chairman 25March2010 wise counsel as a Director.
