3i Group plc Report and accounts 2009 Overview 0112 Business review 1332 Case studies 3336 Financial review 3746 Risk 4752 Corporate responsibility 5364 Governance 6590 Financial statements 91120 Chairmans statement Portfolio and additional information 121144 Board therefore asked Mr Queen to set a high priority on the We believe that the actions being reduction of debt.
Todays announcement of a rights issue is a further important step on the road to his objective, which is to bring 3is net taken to reinforce 3is financial debt down to about 1 billion over the next 12 to 15 months.
strength give your Company the The 732 million underwritten rights issue approved by the Board will enable 3i to strengthen its balance sheet.
It will also provide flexibility time to manage its well-diversified and further capacity for 3i to manage existing assets for value over portfolio to maximise value for time and invest in new opportunities as they arise.
The Company paid an interim dividend of 6.3p per share on 7 January shareholders, and position us to 2009 for the year to 31 March 2009.
The Board has decided, in the take advantage of well-priced light of the Group's financial results for the year and the proposed rights issue, not to recommend a final dividend for the year ended opportunities in the upturn.
For the year to 31 March 2010 the Board intends to pay a total dividend at least as high in aggregate as the amount paid in During the year to 31 March 2009, 3is net asset value per share fell respect of the year ended 31 March 2009 24 million, and remains from 10.77 to 4.96, in sharp contrast to the strong returns of the committed to the principle of paying an increasing dividend thereafter.
The most rapid economic downturn in 3is history, the dislocation of capital markets and the collapse of mergers and The appointment of Michael Queen followed the decision of the acquisitions activity all undermined the value of our portfolio.
It also Board to put in place a Chief Executive who would take 3i through led to a significant increase in the leverage on our balance sheet, the challenges of a deep and potentially prolonged recession and which itself magnified our negative return.
focus on rebuilding the Companys financial strength.
His predecessor, Philip Yea, did a great deal to lead and develop 3i through the previous The largest single element of the decline in the value of our years of growth, for which I would like to express the Boards thanks.
investments is due to the fall in quoted market multiples used to value In view of Michaels successful stewardship of Growth Capital and most of our unrealised investments.
While the prices at which we launch of 3is Infrastructure funds, the respect with which he is held in have been able to realise investments have been depressed by the 3i and his deep knowledge of the private equity industry, the Board collapse in mergers and acquisitions activity that accompanied the decided that he was the outstanding candidate to succeed Philip Yea.
credit crunch, we still achieved an average 5% uplift to opening value on the 1.3 billion of realisations during the year.
Other Board changes during the year include the appointment of Julia Wilson as Finance Director.
Julia, who knows 3i well as she first joined However, in these highly uncertain economic times, we believed that us as Deputy Finance Director, is currently on maternity leave and we should again review our approach to the valuation of our portfolio.
her operational responsibilities are being ably managed by Stephen Two examples of this are the decisions the Board has taken to carry Halliwell, Chief Financial Officer of 3is Infrastructure business line, and no assets at cost at 31 March, and to value the non-core SMI and Ian Nolan, who has been appointed to the Management Committee Venture portfolios at the level of expected proceeds.
The disposal of a number of assets in these portfolios, together with The Board was also strengthened during the year by the appointment the decision to bring 3is Quoted Private Equity business back on to of a new non-executive Director, Richard Meddings, the highlyour balance sheet, are amongst the actions that have been taken respected Finance Director of Standard Chartered Bank, who brings to improve the Groups financial position since the appointment of further valuable expertise to our discussions.
Michael Queen as Chief Executive on 28 January 2009.
The decline in asset values drove our gearing to 103% at the year end, and the At the end of 2008-09, the Deputy Chairman, Oliver Stocken, reached nine years on the Board.
Robert Swannell has therefore taken over the role of Oliver as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank both of them for their wisdom and support during this challenging year.
I closed my statement in May 2008 by warning of great uncertainty as to the impact of the credit crunch, energy prices and raw material costs on economic activity, and as to whether these pressures could be managed by the worlds monetary authorities without precipitating recession or a sharp rise in inflation.
It is now painfully clear that they could not avoid a deep recession: whether governments will manage to calibrate policy to avoid the subsequent pitfall of inflation remains to be seen.
No economic forecasts can currently be relied on, but we believe that the actions being taken to reinforce 3is financial strength will give your Company the time to manage its well-diversified portfolio to maximise value for shareholders, and position us to take advantage of well-priced investment opportunities when the Baroness Hogg upturn comes.
