02 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Chairmans statement The past financial year saw significant Income generation was complemented by volatility in both equity and credit markets.
strong realised profits in driving the return.
What started as a financial crisis became an The Company generated 25.9 million in economic crisis, with a number of economies realised profits during the year through the in the world now expected to contract in sales of its stakes in the Alma Mater Fund and 2 2009 and, possibly, in 2010, with other I at significant uplifts over their previous economies growing more slowly.
These realisations were significant, not only for the profits they generated, but In this volatile economic environment, the also because they demonstrate that the infrastructure sector has held up relatively market for infrastructure investment is still well, demonstrating its value as an asset class.
active, and that debt finance is still available Against this backdrop, the Company and its for assets with a robust operational Investment Adviser have remained very performance.
cautious in their investment approach, maintaining a strong cash position and well This years realisations further strengthened 3i Infrastructure has emerged controlled gearing through the Companys the Companys balance sheet, following the from the market turmoil of the portfolio, while deploying capital selectively in completion of a Placing and Open Offer in July past year in a strong financial state a limited number of new investments.
2008, which raised 114.6 million in new and the level of income generation equity.
The Companys cash balance stood at Our investment strategy remains to build a 386.8 million at 31 March 2009.
While this from the portfolio has underpinned diversified portfolio of infrastructure assets may dilute returns in the short term, the that balances the different yield and capital the Boards decision to grow the availability of capital to deploy is key in the growth characteristics of its underlying assets.
In the period ahead, we current market in positioning 3i Infrastructure Over the year, the Company invested to take advantage of the opportunity for will remain focused on building the 114.7 million in five junior debt instruments infrastructure investment.
The requirement for portfolio and managing our assets issued by infrastructure businesses, which such investment remains undiminished in both will yield 20% on a weighted average basis, to deliver our return objectives developing and developed economies.
With based on current value.
While this investment the number and strength of competitors across the cycle.
adds some mark-to-market volatility to our significantly affected by the ongoing financial portfolio valuation in the short to medium crisis, the Board believes that the market term, it has further improved the yield opportunity is attractive, despite macro and generated by our portfolio.
The other main financial headwinds.
investment during the year was a draw down of 23 million by the 3i India Infrastructure The appointment of Sir John Collins in January Fund to finance an investment in the 2009 as a non-executive Director and a Krishnapatnam Port Company Limited, which member of the Audit Committee has further has a concession to build and manage a port in enhanced the expertise of the Board.
Sir John the state of Andhra Pradesh in India, which is has extensive experience in the financial and expected to deliver good capital growth.
infrastructure sectors and as an adviser to both the the former Department of Trade and Over the year to 31 March 2009, the Industry and the Department for Environment, Company achieved a total return, on a Food and Rural Affairs on energy and consolidated IFRS basis, of 79.1 million, environmental policy.
We believe that a strong representing a return of 9.5% on average Board with the skill to navigate these shareholders equity.
On an investment basis, increasingly difficult markets will prove to be a which the Board uses as the primary basis to competitive advantage for the Company.
monitor performance, the Company achieved a total return of 73.2 million 8.8% which, Martin Dryden will retire from the Board while falling short of the long-term 12% following the AGM in July 2009.
I, along with return objective, is significant in the context of the rest of the Board, would like to thank him increasingly volatile markets, falling inflation for his significant contribution, including his and increasing risk premia.
chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
Steven Wilderspin will take over as chairman of the The companies in our portfolio are generally Audit Committee following the AGM.
The underlying EBITDA of the portfolio companies increased 3i Infrastructure has emerged from the market by 13.6% year-on-year on a weighted turmoil of the past year in a strong financial average basis, despite significantly adverse state and the level of income generation from macroeconomic conditions.
The portfolio as a the portfolio has underpinned the Boards consequence is generating strong income decision to grow the dividend.
In the period 41.2 million over the year, which, including ahead, we will remain focused on building the the interest income earned on cash balances, portfolio and managing our assets to deliver fully covers the interim dividend of 2.1 pence our return objectives across the cycle.
per share paid out in December and the Peter Sedgwick proposed final distribution of 3.2 pence per Chairman share, which total 43.0 million in aggregate.
