Chairmans statement During the twelve month period ended 30 September 2009, Aberdeen Asset Management has ridden out one of the fiercest financial storms on record and emerged in good shape.
Gross new business levels, while down on last year, were healthy with support for higher margin equity lines offsetting fixed income outflows.
The successful completion of the Credit Suisse transaction lifted assets under management to 146.2 billion and leaves the Group well placed to make progress from current levels.
not funded at the year end, we consider which will improve the average maturity this performance very respectable.
of the debt and bring more flexibility to the Groups financing structure.
Financials Results and dividend Revenue for the year of 421.9 million was 2% lower than in 2008 as the The Groups underlying profit, which effects of weak markets in the earlier we define as profit before taxation, part of the year have been offset by the exceptional items, amortisation and additional revenue introduced by the impairment of intangible assets, was Credit Suisse transaction.
85.1 million compared to 95.1 million in 2008.
This represents underlying Operating costs were 2% lower than earnings per share, on a diluted basis, Roger Cornick Chairman last time.
The Groups commitment of 6.31p, a decrease of 30% on last to deliver annualised cost savings year.
After accounting for exceptional of 80.0 million has been met, with The reporting year began amid a severe items, amortisation and impairment we downturn in global bond and equity approximately 55.0 million of the net report a pre-tax profit of 10.5 million, benefit reflected in the 2009 numbers markets, with consequent pressure compared to 60.5 million for 2008. and the final tranche of savings will on Group revenues: since then the Group has faced an ongoing challenge come into effect over the next financial The Board is recommending a final year.
The Credit Suisse acquisition dividend of 3.2p per share, making a to balance cost reductions with the need to position itself for eventual added approximately 11.0 million total payment for the year of 6.0p per recovery.
However, 2009 also brought to operating costs for the period share, an increase of 3% on the total from completion of the transaction: payment for 2008.
Notwithstanding opportunities, and the acquisition of certain fund management businesses the integration of this business difficult markets this year, the Board into the wider Group has now been remains committed to a progressive from Credit Suisse, completed on 30 June 2009, has added further scale and completed in line with the timetable.
depth to our investment capabilities.
Overall, the Groups operating profit On 31 December 2008, the Group New business amounted to 19.1 was slightly behind that of last year, at announced the acquisition of certain 95.7 million 2008: 100.0 million, fund businesses of Credit Suisses billion, only 12% below 2008 levels, and the operating margin was also Global Investors business, the traditional but was outweighed by an exodus of 29.8 billion, principally in fixed slightly lower this year at 22.7% 2008: long-only asset management division.
Again, it is important to note The transaction was completed in two income.
However the bulk of that was recorded in the first half of the year the improvement in profitability and stages, on 30 April 2009 and 30 June margins in the second half as markets 2009, and added approximately 35.1 and we have been encouraged by the and revenues recovered and the Credit billion to assets under management decreasing rate of redemptions of late.
New business inflows were mainly Suisse transaction began to make a AuM during the year.
Total AuM at the contribution.
year end increased by 32% to 146.2 into equities, so the effect overall on annualised revenues has been milder billion 2008: 111.1 billion.
The balance sheet remains solid with net than headline numbers might suggest debt of about 175.0 million supported Many of our fixed income products - indeed, the effect of net new business by 1.0 billion of equity, representing struggled in 2008 because of the flows on run rate revenues was positive a gearing ratio of 17% at the year end.
The scale of during the second half.
With a further Since then, we have successfully placed global deleveraging led to extreme price 3.6 billion of mandates awarded but a 90.0 million convertible bond issue, falls, even of high quality securities, 4 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 OUR STRATEGY The Group has a balanced business with principal investment centres in the three main time zones.
Our aim is to offer an outstanding pure asset management business that is well-diversified by territory, channel and product.
Our investment expertise is the management of client portfolios in equities, fixed income and property from a fundamental perspective.
This forms the basis of our core investment competence, although we have wider skills and disciplines to help us meet our clients requirements.
Our business strategy is to build long-term relationships with our clients through strong performance and first-class client service.
We intend to develop our investment capability and distribution platforms in order to enter new markets and segments where we may have a competitive and sustainable edge.
We add new offices where it will enhance our services to clients and prospects or deepen our investment coverage.
We also build our assets and skills through appropriate acquisitions where we see a fit to our existing business.
To manage costs, we outsource or centralise non-core functions.
We prefer to own investment competence, product development and client relations ourselves.
with the result that our performance, equities where we enjoy a strong Credit Suisse on 1 July, adding some particularly in US credit, was badly reputation and our fundamental 35.1 billion of assets.
However, performance has investment process proved very resilient.
We reported that rebounded strongly in 2009 and the estimated run-rate revenues delivered One pleasing new development was the subsequent Credit Suisse acquisition at closing exceeded 90% of the target interest of European-based investors in has enabled us to strengthen the overall and, as a consequence, 240 million our US equity strategy.
As highlighted, team and investment process, with new ordinary shares were issued to the fixed income division did poorly in more resources devoted to top-down Credit Suisse, being the maximum 2008 and this led to outflows that team analysis and the appointment of a new consideration and equating to 23.9% changes may in turn have exacerbated.
global head of fixed income.
of total share capital: subsequent There were some bright spots, however, refinement of the estimates confirmed Our equity teams have continued to namely our global and emerging market that the full consideration was due.
outperform benchmarks on a consistent debt strategies.
As well as the Groups key global While the deal was complex in respect The property division is now the third equity, global emerging markets equity of the number of jurisdictions involved, largest such manager in Europe and one and Asia Pacific equity capabilities, our the considerable systems development of the largest independents globally.
The US equities team has shown consistent work undertaken during the Deutsche division has a wide range of investment outperformance.
Our UK and Pan Asset Management acquisition in 2005, products both by asset type and European equities performance has also has meant that we have been able to geography and as a global specialist improved over the year.
migrate the portfolios in a much shorter player is well positioned for further timescale - and on time.
The property division encountered growth, when it comes, especially in some turbulence.
However, our Europe and Asia.
At present the UK faces Shortly after the completion of the institutional client base has insulated a severe downturn in both commercial Credit Suisse transaction, we announced it from the worst of the downturn.
and residential property while in Europe the sale of certain equity funds, with Flows have been flat to mildly positive, transactions are well down.
The Groups AuM of 858.0 million, to Premier Asset although our German property funds property assets under management Management Group.
This transaction experienced some selling, a problem decreased to 22.6 billion at the year is due to complete in mid-December, common to the industry there as end, representing approximately 15% when sale proceeds of 23.0 million will certain institutions reduced exposure.
Against that, the division was awarded Gross sales can be summarised in the a e1.4 billion mandate by a Swedish Business development table overleaf and were sourced from client, which will fund in January 2010.
Continental Europe 35%, the UK 28%, One of our main aims is to market and the United States and Canada 16%, cross-sell our core competencies of New business Asia 15% and the Middle East 6%.
equities, fixed income and property, and We made considerable progress in we gained noticeable traction in Canada, attracting new clients, especially Europe, the Middle East and North Corporate activity from Europe, the Middle East and America: we also added new offices As mentioned, the Group announced the the Americas, with strong flows into in Toronto and So Paulo.
Both these completion of the acquisition of certain equities.
The main beneficiaries were openings will enable us to get closer fund management businesses from global and global emerging market to, and service better, our investors.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Funded Yet to fund Total m m m Equities: Gross inflows 9,367 1,816 11,183 Outflows 5,353 5,353 Net flow 4,014 1,816 5,830 Fixed income: Gross inflows 6,722 6,722 Outflows 20,777 20,777 Net flow 14,055 14,055 Money market: Gross inflows 1,427 1,427 Outflows 1,270 1,270 Net flow 157 157 Multi-asset: Gross inflows 221 221 Outflows 1,410 1,410 Net flow 1,189 1,189 Property: Gross inflows 1,393 1,833 3,226 Outflows 1,011 1,011 Net flow 382 1,833 2,215 Group total: Gross inflows 19,130 3,649 22,779 Outflows 29,821 29,821 Net flow 10,691 3,649 7,042 Additionally, we are hopeful that with Looking ahead, the impact of the Kenichi Miyanaga, nominated by MUTB.
a wider product range and access to financial crisis on asset managers All three have considerable experience Credit Suisses significant private bank is likely to see more consolidation.
of global asset management that will be platform, we can tap new channels.
The survivors will be those that can of great value.
The acquisition has brought us a new differentiate themselves through I took over as chairman in January, and asset class in the form of money performance, first of all, but also I would like to thank my predecessor, market funds.
It has also expanded our through diversification of revenues via Charles Irby for his contribution and fine Continental European operation, not products and channels.
Certainly, the effort over the nine years he served on least in Switzerland, with a new office: trend to scale of the recent past appears the Board, having left the Group a much while in Australia we have vaulted into to be ending, with size no guarantee of larger and more diversified organisation the top 15 largest managers.
The industrys upheavals than when he first joined.
also mean we can expect more scrutiny Last, in wishing to develop distribution from financial regulators and legislators.
In summary, while some commentators of products through third parties, we still doubt whether market confidence can report that our strategic partnership Finally, I would like to thank all our has been fully restored, the Group with Mitsubishi MUTB in Japan is staff for their continued hard work, has emerged from the financial crisis showing promise as we proceed to particularly in ensuring the smooth comfortably positioned both to gather institutional assets following our integration of the Credit Suisse enjoy organic growth and to expand first roadshow.
acquisition, which we expect will be opportunistically as competitors shrink reflected in further profitable growth in or even withdraw from the industry.
Outlook I would also like to welcome three new Our new financial year has started well, directors to the Board: Simon Troughton, with new business flows and improved markets benefiting revenues and who has joined as an independent non-executive: Gerhard Fusenig, who Roger C Cornick operating costs under tight control.
Chairman was nominated by Credit Suisse: and 6 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
