Chairmans Statement Review of 2009 Performance As noted in my Half Yearly Statement, the first three months of 2009 remained challenging for equity investors as the turmoil afflicting global economies towards the end of 2008 showed no signs of abating.
However, stock markets then rallied strongly as economies stabilised in response to unprecedented monetary and fiscal stimulus, and as investors appetite for risk returned.
Against this background, ASCoTs net asset value total return for the full year was 44.4%, the third best in its history.
This was well ahead of the 30.1% total return of large companies, as represented by the FTSE AllShare Index, but was some way behind the 60.7% total return of the RBS Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies, ASCoTs investment benchmark.
The Managers Report provides greater insight into ASCoTs net asset value performance compared with the benchmark index.
In particular, your Board understands the relatively cautious positioning of the portfolio coming into 2009.
Many companies in the investment benchmark were confronted by a combination of profits reduced by recessionary conditions and highly geared balance sheets.
Dividends suffered and the equity value of these companies was perilously close to being dictated by their lenders.
Positioned to avoid these exposures, the portfolio was out of step with the stock markets subsequent rally, which was helped by investors willingness to refinance indebted businesses through numerous rights issues.
Gearing I commented last year that timing the bottom of the market with certainty was near impossible.
Employing bank borrowing to gear the portfolio has, however, been helpful during 2009 as the market recovered.
As reported in my Half Yearly Statement, your Board negotiated terms in July 2009 on a new two year committed facility of 75 million, which replaced the previous arrangement.
At the year-end approximately 48 million of this facility was utilised.
Your Board reviews the level of gearing regularly with the Managers and is comfortable that ASCoT has access to sufficient liquidity for both investment purposes and also to fund share buybacks as and when appropriate.
Share Buy Back Authority At the Annual General Meeting in March 2009, the authority to buy-in up to 14.99% of ASCoTs Ordinary Shares was renewed.
Under that authority 33,000 shares have been bought in to the end of December at a total cost of 0.2 million.
All shares bought in have been cancelled rather than held in treasury.
Your Board will be seeking a renewal of this authority at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 March 2010.
The Board keeps under careful review the circumstances under which the buy-in authority is used in the context of its overall objective of seeking to sustain a low discount.
It will remain the policy to cancel, rather than hold in treasury, any such shares.
Dividends Your Board is pleased to declare a second interim dividend, in effect a final dividend, of 13 pence per share.
This results in total dividends for the year of 19 pence per share, which is the same as the previous year, and delivers a yield of 3.6% on the year-end share price of 534 pence.
Reflecting the impact of the severe economic downturn and exacerbated by the credit crunch, portfolio dividend income for the year is approximately 20% lower than that recorded the previous year.
As the Managers Report explains, this was nevertheless a considerably better outcome than that experienced by the benchmark.
Whilst the worst is hopefully behind us, a further modest decline in dividend income in 2010 would not be a surprise.
In this context, your Board does have a degree of flexibility on dividends given the level of ASCoTs revenue reserves which, after adjusting for payment of the second interim dividend, amount to 25.3 pence per share.
Your Board is aware of the importance of the income component of the total return from equities over the long term.
4 Chairmans Statement The second interim dividend of 13.0 pence per share will be paid on 26 February 2010 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 February 2010.
The last date for submission of Forms of Election for those Shareholders wishing to participate in ASCoTs Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRiP is 5 February 2010.
Details of the DRiP are available from Aberforth Partners LLP on request or on their website, www.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD The AIFMD is draft legislation, currently being debated in Europe, which will regulate the managers of alternative investment funds.
As currently drafted, UK investment trust companies fall within its scope.
Certain of the draft proposals could have far reaching consequences for ASCoT and the whole of the investment trust industry in the UK.
Your Board and Managers, as well as the Association of Investment Companies and others, have actively engaged in lobbying relevant parties to highlight the potential issues and seek changes to the draft.
The outcome remains far from certain and it is unlikely that the Directive will be finalised before summer 2010.
Summary Overall, 2009 has been a vintage year for the share prices of UK smaller companies.
However, this performance has to be viewed in context of the steep declines suffered during the previous two years, with the benchmark index at the end of 2009 still some 21% below its peak reached in the second quarter of 2007.
Accordingly, the Managers are of the view that UK small company equities remain attractive from a value perspective despite recent gains.
As is their style, they have constructed the portfolio mindful of the short term risks of recovery, with stock selection based around sound fundamentals.
Your Board remains confident that the Managers experience and this consistency of approach will benefit ASCoT over the long term.
Finally, and as announced in my Half Yearly Statement, I retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in March 2010, when Professor Paul Marsh will take over the role of Chairman.
It has been my privilege to serve on the Board for fifteen years and to have held the Chair for five of these.
As a shareholder, I will be following the fortunes of the Company closely in my retirement.
In this regard, Paul and his colleagues on the Board have my full confidence and very best wishes.
David R Shaw Chairman 26 January 2010 5 Aberforth Partners LLP Information Aberforth Partners LLP the firm act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company.
The predecessor business, Aberforth Partners, was established in 1990 to provide institutional and wholesale investors with a high level of resources focused exclusively on small UK quoted companies.
Since then funds under management have grown to 1.4 billion as at 31 December 2009.
The firm is wholly owned by seven partners six investment managers including four founding partners, and Alan Waite, who is responsible for the firms administration.
The six investment managers work as a team managing the Companys portfolio on a collegiate basis.
The founding partners have been managing the portfolio since the Companys inception in December 1990.
The partners each have a personal investment in the Company.
The biographical details of the investment managers are as follows: Andrew P Bamford 43 BCom Hons, CA Andy joined Aberforth Partners in April 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Technology Hardware & Equipment: Travel & Leisure: Industrial Transportation: and a proportion of Support Services.
Previously he was with Edinburgh Fund Managers for 7 years, latterly as Deputy Head of UK Small Companies, with specific responsibility for institutional clients.
Prior to joining Edinburgh Fund Managers he was a senior investment analyst with General Accident for 2 years supporting the head of UK Smaller Companies.
Before joining General Accident, he was a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
John M Evans 52 MA Hons John was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Automobiles & Parts: Chemicals: Construction & Materials: Industrial Metals & Mining: Household Goods & Home Construction: Leisure Goods: Personal Goods: Fixed Line Telecom: Electricity: Gas, Water & Multiutilities: and Mining.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 11 years where he was latterly responsible for the management of portfolios whose objectives were income and capital growth from UK equities.
Euan R Macdonald 39 BA Hons Euan joined Aberforth Partners in May 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Industrial Engineering: Software & Computer Services: and a proportion of Support Services.
Previously he was with Baillie Gifford for 10 years where he managed portfolios invested in small companies both in Continental Europe and in the UK.
Richard M J Newbery 50 BA Hons Richard was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Alternative Energy: Electronic & Electrical Equipment: Beverages: Food & Drug Retailers: Food Producers: Forestry & Paper: General Industrials: and General Retailers.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 9 years where he managed international portfolios for a range of clients including those with a small company specialisation.
David T M Ross 60 FCCA David was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Nonlife Insurance: Life Assurance: Real Estate: and Financial Services.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 22 years, the last two of which were as Managing Director.
He was a Director of US Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc and served as a member of the Executive Committee of the Association of Investment Companies.
Alistair J Whyte 46 Alistair was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Aerospace & Defence: Health Care Equipment & Services: Media: Oil & Gas Producers: Oil Equipment & Services: and Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 11 years where latterly he managed portfolios in Asia.
Prior to that he managed portfolios with the objective of capital growth from smaller companies in the UK and internationally.
Further information on Aberforth Partners LLP and its clients is available on its website www.
