CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Introduction Over the year to 31st March 2009 financial markets have experienced enormous turmoil, leading to government intervention to provide both capital and liquidity for the financial system on an unprecedented scale.
While it now appears that this intervention has started to create a degree of stability in the banking system, great uncertainty remains, particularly with regard to the prospects for the global economy over the coming years.
The hedge fund sector has been under considerable pressure over this period, with funding and liquidity for hedge funds becoming more restricted and more expensive, and temporary restrictions on short-selling negatively affecting the ability of hedge funds to manage a number of their strategies.
Poor returns and concerns over gearing and liquidity have led to substantial redemptions by many investors, and not all hedge funds have been able to meet redemptions immediately, leading to the imposition of restrictions on redemptions, particularly by those funds whose underlying assets are less liquid.
In these extraordinarily difficult markets the Companys portfolio has registered a negative return over the year to 31st March 2009.
The Companys share price fell sharply in the period from September to December 2008, trading at a wide discount to Net Asset Value.
Since the beginning of 2009 returns have turned positive and, with more constructive market sentiment, the Companys share price has shown substantial improvement.
In the course of the year, the Company raised additional funds by way of C share issues amounting to 28.1 million and 1.9 million.
These shares have since been converted into redeemable participating preference shares following the investment a of the proceeds of the issue.
Results Over the twelve months to 31st March 2009 the Net Asset Value of the Companys Sterling Shares has fallen from 131.0p per Share on 31st March 2008 to 117.5p per Share on 31st March 2009, representing a decline of 10.3 per cent.
Over the same period the Net Asset Value of the Companys Euro Shares has fallen from 97.6 per Share to 87.6 per Share a decline of 10.2 per cent.
Following this period of weak performance, the growth in the Companys Net Asset Value since its inception in March 2005 has been 4.4 per cent.
per annum, equivalent to LIBOR minus 0.6 per cent.
per annum, compared with our objective of LIBOR plus 5.0 per cent.
per annum over rolling five year periods.
The volatility of the Companys Net Asset Value has risen to 6.2 per cent.
per annum over the same period, which is marginally higher than was set in the Companys objectives.
Currency hedging Since its inception the Company has hedged its currency exposure against the US Dollar for both the Sterling and Euro Share Classes and it continues to do so.
It has a foreign exchange and borrowing facility in place from its Bankers to enable it to manage the short-term cash ows arising from this hedging programme.
The facility now stands at the lower of 20.0 per cent.
of Net Asset Value or 40.0 million, after a temporary increase in the fourth quarter of 2008 to accommodate the extreme currency volatility which we saw at that time.
The Company also made use of currency options to complement its forward foreign exchange hedging, as the Advisors report describes in more detail.
It remains the Companys policy to hedge its currency exposures and the Board is satisfied that the foreign exchange and borrowing facility remains sufficient to manage the cash ows arising from this activity.
Liquidity The last twelve months has seen a much greater focus on liquidity, first in the interbank markets and latterly across all asset classes.
UK listed funds of hedge funds have needed to pay particular attention to this subject, with the need to cover cash ows arising from currency hedging, and to be in a position to address share price discounts through share buybacks or similar mechanisms while simultaneously suffering from the imposition of redemption restrictions in many underlying funds in which they have been invested.
Over this period, the Board has worked closely with the Manager to monitor and manage the Companys liquidity position and the Advisors report describes the current satisfactory position.
The Board and the Manager maintain vigilance to strike an appropriate balance between the returns available from less liquid strategies and the need to maintain exibility.
3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Share Price relative to Net Asset Value The Companys share price is currently trading at a discount of 12 per cent.
to Net Asset Value, having reached much wider discount levels in the extreme conditions in the last quarter of 2008.
The Board has reviewed the various discount control mechanisms at the Companys disposal including the semi-annual redemption facility.
In determining what action to take, the Board considered not only the level of the discount, but also the impact on the underlying portfolio of any action to raise liquidity in order to maintain value for shareholders both in the short and longer term.
The Board concluded that the use of share buybacks was the most appropriate mechanism to employ in this regard, after careful consideration and consultation with a number of major shareholders.
Over the period under review and up to today, the Company has repurchased 5.0 million shares.
In seeking to buy back shares, the Board have taken account of market conditions and remain mindful of the desire of some of our shareholders to add to their holdings.
Board and Manager Review The Board conducted a formal review of the capabilities and controls of the Manager in addition to our regular quarterly reviews of investment performance.
On the basis of this review, the Board believes that the continued appointment of the Manager and Investment Advisor remain in the interests of shareholders.
The Board also conducted a self appraisal which concluded that the Board is operating effectively and that its members have an appropriate range of skills and experience.
The Board reviewed its remuneration with reference to external benchmarks.
It concluded that it was appropriate to make a modest increase in the level of Directors fees, in order to reect the increasing workload of the Board and to be in a position to retain or, if necessary, attract new Directors of appropriate calibre.
The details of this increase are set out in the Directors Report.
Outlook At the time of writing, world markets have recovered from their lows, but the outlook for the world economy remains bleak.
Our portfolio has delivered positive performance over the first five months of 2009 and liquidity has been improving gradually.
The fall in the Companys Net Asset Value in the year to 31st March 2009 is disappointing, although it has come at a time of heavy falls and extreme volatility and illiquidity in equity, commodity and corporate bond markets.
The Board is encouraged by the better results in 2009 to date and by the quality and resilience of the hedge funds in our portfolio.
There will no doubt be further challenges over the year ahead but there is evidence that those funds which have weathered the recent market turbulence are proting from market conditions which now offer considerable opportunity.
