Chairmans statement Highlights 04 Chairmans statement We will distribute 06 Chief Executives statement 97% of 2009 10 Business review 32 Governance post-tax earnings 51 Financial statements Alastair Lyons, CBE Chairman Since becoming a public company in 2004 Admirals With price comparison further increasing its share as strategy has been clear and straightforward, being to: a distribution channel for motor insurance, our UK private motor business had another very strong year, Grow our share of the UK private motor growing both its vehicle count and gross premiums insurance market by 17%.
The 1.9 million cars covered by Admiral Exploit the knowledge, skills and resources brands account, we estimate, for some 7% of the attaching to our established UK businesses to UK market making us the UKs third largest private promote our expansion overseas in both private motor insurer.
This growth in our book in 2009 was motor and price comparison accompanied by a 19% increase in profi t derived Learn by taking relatively small and inexpensive from ancillary products and services.
steps to test different approaches and identify the best way forward As regards our expansion overseas, in October Operate a capital-light business model Elephant Auto Insurance sold its fi first policies in the transferring a signifi cant proportion of our state of Virginia, adding the US to the list of Spain, underwriting risk to reinsurance partners, which in Germany, and Italy in which we have established turn allows Admiral to distribute the majority of our private motor insurers over the past 4 years.
As earnings as dividends Henry Engelhardt discusses in his CEOs report, we Extend this low-risk philosophy to our investment have learned signifi cantly more about each of these strategy, only employing cash deposits or money markets over the past 12 months.
Balumba, our market funds business in Spain, has focused with positive results Give all our staff a stake in what they create by on further reducing its loss ratio ahead of resuming making them shareholders policy growth.
Our German business, AdmiralDirekt, Recognise the responsibility we have to the also concentrated in its second year on its communities of which we are a part underwriting result, generating a steady fl ow of new business through the year rather than competing The milestones of the past year mark another aggressively in the 1 January renewal market.
In Italy successful 12 months implementing this ConTe now has 35,000 customers at the end of its strategic direction.
fi first full fi financial year.
Overall the Group now has some 120,000 customers outside the UK.
Admiral Group plc 04 Annual Report 2009 Against the backdrop of an estimated 20% growth We continue to encourage our staff, wherever in motor insurance price comparison, Confused they are working, to play an active part in their local maintained its share at close to one-third of this community.
Through our Community Chest giving 57.5 p market, with profi ts comparable to 2008.
We have scheme we supported around 150 organisations, total dividends for 2009, now started to take the learning from Confused into charities, and sports teams during 2009 covering 10% v 2008. other markets, launching Rastreator.
com in Spain causes as disparate as the Ystradgynlais Community in March 2009, followed by LeLynx.
fr in France and Car Scheme and Halifax County Soccer in Canada.
We are delighted to The Admiral Cardiff Big Weekend was the UKs have Mapfre, Spains leading insurance group, as our largest free festival during 2009.
Our Board has spent a lot of time during 2009 Totally in line with our risk-sharing strategy were discussing the learning that we should take from the agreements we announced in January this year the events of the last 18 months and the conclusions with Munich Re and Hannover Re to broaden and arrived at by Sir David Walker, the Financial Reporting lengthen our existing relationships with these very Council, and the FSA.
Each year we undertake strongly rated reinsurance providers.
Our association an appraisal of the working of the Board and the with Munich Re dates back to 2000 and may now Board committees, and of my effectiveness as go past 2020 with the advent of a new 15 year chairman, and seek to identify how we can improve agreement for our US business and the extension our Board process and its effectiveness in setting, of our agreements with them in Spain and Italy also and having oversight of the implementation of, the to 15 year terms.
We are very pleased to have the Groups strategy.
confi dence of an institution of Munich Res standing to justify its committal to such long-term agreements.
Particular areas of focus have been ensuring the Board spends its time on issues of signifi cance, Given our very prudent investment philosophy, both operational and strategic, rather than on exceptionally low interest rates across our business the reporting of detailed implementation: the ate into the strong growth in UK car insurance management resource required by an ever larger and profi ts, leaving Group pre-tax profi ts at 216 million, more complex business: and achieving adequate 7% ahead of the previous year.
understanding by our Board of the increasing number of markets in which we have a presence.
We will distribute 97% of post-tax earnings, our full year dividends amounting to 57.5 pence per Too often one fails to say thank you often enough share, 10% up on our declaration for 2008.
Our to recognise how good people feel when they know normal dividend, growing in line with our growth that they, and what they do, are appreciated.
Let me, in profi ts based on a 45% pay-out ratio, amounted therefore, be absolutely clear how much I, on behalf to 26.5 pence per share, whilst our available surplus, of the Board of Admiral, appreciate what everyone after taking into account our required solvency, has contributed to achieving another successful provision for our overseas expansion plans, and a year, in particular the commitment, energy, and margin for contingencies, made possible a special enthusiasm of our directors, managers, and staff.
dividend of 31.0 pence per share.
We have paid such a special dividend as part of every distribution Thank you!
we have made since becoming a public company in total 303 million, 51% of overall dividends.
Every Admiral employee is included in our Free Share Schemes.
As regards the Approved Free Share Scheme the achievement in full of the 2009 Alastair Lyons objectives will mean employees will again realise the Chairman maximum award of 3,000 free shares.
Someone 25 February 2010 who has been employed since fl otation now has the potential to hold 1,820 shares under this scheme worth 22,600.
In line with our straightforward remuneration philosophy of individual reward being simply a combination of base salary and performance-related shares our Discretionary Free Share Scheme has a much wider than normal coverage, with over 1,900 individuals currently holding awards in the scheme.
Our strong earnings growth over 2007 to 2009 resulted in the 2007 scheme achieving a 98% vesting percentage.
based on the closing share price on 26 February 2010 Admiral Group plc 05 Annual Report 2009
