6 Directors Report: Business Review Chairmans statement A solid performance despite notably challenging global economic conditions.
Sir Robert Wilson Chairman Global economic conditions were notably peak, seem to be broadly sustainable, at least The pace of gas usage growth in China one challenging in 2009, with adverse consequences under current market conditions.
However, of the worlds largest economies is just one for energy demand in some of BG Groups gas prices remain subdued a factor reected indication that the new decade is likely to see key markets.
Despite this, BG Groups in the Groups 2009 earnings.
further growth in demand for the cleanest performance over the year was solid.
Total of the fossil fuels.
I believe that BG Group, The present weak level of global energy operating profit of 4 211 million was 21% as a global gas company, is strongly placed to demand has led to talk of a natural gas glut lower year-on-year against a background of benefit as natural gas continues to underpin as new sources of supply continue to come significant reductions in international the journey to a lower-carbon future.
onstream and producers compete to secure benchmark oil and gas prices.
Earnings per customers in a buyers market.
There is in A strengthened and rebalanced portfolio share were 27% lower at 67.3 pence.
The some markets a mismatch between capacity A challenge shared by all oil and gas Group continues to benefit from strong cash and demand at the moment.
However, companies is that a substantial proportion ows.
Gearing is higher than in previous years this may not last long if, as anticipated, of global hydrocarbon resources is located but at 17% remains within the range that the momentum is restored to global economic within developing economies.
Over the last Group considers to be appropriate.
The growth in the early years of this decade.
three years, the Group has rebalanced its full-year dividend payment has been portfolio to ensure that future growth has increased by 10% to 12.35 pence per share.
There are two other relevant factors.
a rm foundation in countries with a long Full details of the Groups 2009 financial First, despite the weak conclusions of the track record of stability.
That does not imply, performance can be found on page 69.
Copenhagen summit, political leaders still though, that BG Group will avoid all face an urgent need to define credible and BG Group enjoyed continued exploration countries where there is an element of risk.
deliverable policies which will meet current success, particularly offshore Brazil, Doing so would not be tenable in this and future national energy requirements, strengthening further the Groups platform industry, nor would it be in our shareholders while simultaneously achieving a significant for growth through the new decade.
Second, US the year, the Group acquired Pure Energy and European concerns about energy I am pleased to report that the Group Resources Limited in Australia and entered security are driving a desire to secure new continues to make important improvements into an alliance with EXCO Resources, Inc. and sustainable sources of energy which are in its overall geopolitical risk prole in order EXCO, a US shale gas producer with free from the threat of  to protect, as well as create, value for our upstream and transmission assets at the supply constraints.
The rapid development of the heart of the worlds largest gas market.
Groups QGC business in Australia and the Natural gas goes some way to addressing Market context Santos Basin successes in Brazil are two key both of those policy issues.
It is acknowledged Although timely intervention by governments outcomes from this deliberate strategy to to be a bridge fuel with a role to play in prevented the 2008 banking crisis from establish new opportunities for material value displacing higher-carbon fossil fuels, such tipping the global economy into collapse, the creation in countries proven to be favourable as coal, which remain the energy sources new decade begins with many economies destinations for long-term investment.
of choice across much of the world.
Gas weighed down by a range of recessionary resources are abundant and for many years BG Groups alliance with EXCO in the USA is factors.
These include a reduction in industrial have been brought to market using intended to achieve two interlocking aims.
activity, growing unemployment and a fall techniques that are proven and cost-effective, First, it strengthens the Groups US supply in consumer confidence, leading to lower unlike a number of alternative energy portfolio and expertise near the hub of the demand for goods and services in the major technologies.
Finally, from an energy US eastern seaboard gas market.
Additionally, a number of security perspective, it is important not to expands the Groups skills and development countries, including the UK, enter the decade underestimate the signicance of liqueed opportunities in unconventional gas resources at with very high levels of national debt and natural gas LNG an increasingly fungible a time when, as a consequence of technological huge scal deficits.
global commodity with diverse and resilient developments, these are emerging rapidly as Oil prices partially recovered through the global sources of supply as well as the rapid substantial sources of natural gas production.
year from the lows of late 2008, and appear development of unconventional gas resources An overview of developments in BG Groups to have stabilised at levels which, while within the borders of developed world portfolio is set out in the Operating Review on signicantly lower than the summer 2008 nations, particularly the USA and Australia.
For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 77. www.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 7 Governance and risk comparisons with peers, many of whom One of the most effective means of mitigating already report in US Dollars.
Although the risk is to develop and maintain relationships dividend will be set and declared in US Dollars, it will be paid in Pounds Sterling.
There with relevant stakeholders, including local communities, partners and governments, will also be no change in the currency of BG Groups share capital.
An explanation that are mutually supportive and enduring.
This approach lies at the centre of the Groups of the transition to reporting in US Dollars Business Principles, which set out the core is given on page 114. values and behaviours to which the Group As in previous years, I would encourage aspires and against which it expects to be shareholders to make use of the Groups measured by others.
reporting centre to be found online at www.
com reports in lieu of BG Groups commitment to operating opting to receive a printed copy of the according to the highest standards of ethical Annual Report and Accounts.
We will of conduct and corporate governance is course continue to send printed copies to summarised in The way we work on page 34. shareholders who have specically requested A more detailed overview is also available this.
Those of you who have not stated a in the Groups 2009 Sustainability Report, preference will receive communications published in tandem with the Annual Report from the Group in an online format.
and Accounts and available online at www.
com sustainability Finally, I would like to welcome Mark Seligman to the Board, who joined us as a Non-Executive Another consequence of the 2008 banking Director in December 2009.
I would also like crisis has been a public focus on the extent to express the Boards thanks to the people of to which boards fully understand the risks BG Group.
Their creativity, commitment and faced by their businesses and are willing and expertise has been integral to the success of equipped to hold the executive to account the Group over the last decade and provides over the effective mitigation of those risks.
us with the best possible foundation for the During 2009, both the Walker Review and next generation of growth in the decade ahead.
the Financial Reporting Council called for a step change in the level of engagement and challenge between shareholders and boards, and between boards and the executive.
While the detail of the proposed changes has yet to be nalised and some proposals may turn out to be neither feasible nor desirable in Sir Robert Wilson my view, this Company is already broadly Chairman aligned with the spirit of much of what has been recommended.
This Board takes seriously its duty to test the robustness of the Groups strategy to ensure that business plans properly take into account the full range of political, financial and operating risks.
More details of the Groups approach to governance can be found on page 42.
This year, BG Group will embark upon a very large capital expenditure programme.
The Santos Basin pre-salt developments and the Queensland Curtis LNG project, in particular, will require very large investment over the next three to four years.
These projects will also place significant demands on organisational capacity, but I am confident that our outstanding portfolio of development opportunities will generate significant shareholder value in the years ahead.
Shareholder communications In 2009, BG Group announced that it will move to reporting its financial results in US Dollars with effect from the first quarter results for the 2010 financial year.
As substantially more than half of the Groups revenues are denominated in US Dollars, reporting in that currency will provide shareholders with greater visibility of the Groups performance.
It will also simplify BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
