2 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Chairmans Statement 2008 has been one of the most testing periods The Trust takes a long term view in Alliance Trusts history.
The market turbulence I described last year of investment and the benefits has continued unabated as the effects of of this philosophy are never the financial crisis continue to unfold.
The inescapable conclusion is that we are in a period more apparent than in difficult of recession from which the timing and speed of recovery are uncertain.
Despite this challenging environment, I am pleased to report that Alliance Trust succeeded in delivering an improved performance relative to our peer group in 2008.
The Trust takes a long term view of investment and the benefits of this philosophy are never more apparent than in difficult market conditions.
The defensive positioning of our portfolio ensured that we were less exposed than others to the financial sector and cyclical industries and we maintained a high cash weighting as conditions worsened.
Both of these factors contributed to our increasingly strong performance during the year.
To steer the Company through these difficult times, in addition to her responsibilities as Chief Investment Officer which she assumed in 2007, your Board was delighted to appoint Katherine Garrett-Cox as Chief Executive in August 2008.
Her dual role reflects the importance of her expertise in a Company which relies on the investment skills of its managers.
As Chief Executive, Katherine has moved quickly and decisively, undertaking a comprehensive review of the Companys activities.
This determined our strategic priority to focus primarily on equities, drawing on the in-house stock selection and investment management skills which we have assembled.
She has implemented a series of actions, the benefits of which can clearly be seen in our outperformance of both the FTSE All-Share and FTSE All-World Indices in 2008 and our progression against our peer group over the year.
Shareholders expect the Alliance Trust to deliver good long term performance from a relatively low cost base, and we are committed to our Total Expense Ratio remaining in the lowest quartile of our peers.
Lesley Knox Chairman Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 3 The Chief Executives Statement and Investment Board Review comment in more detail on both Alan Harden, who joined Alliance Trust as Chief investment performance and the activities of Executive in 2004, left the Board in August Alliance Trust Savings and our other subsidiaries when he resigned to take up an external during the year.
David Deards will stand down as Against the background of our renewed Finance Director after the publication of the equity focus, your Board recognised that an accounts.
We thank both of them for their absolute return objective, which was designed contribution during their time at Alliance Trust to measure investment across a much more and wish them well for the future.
diverse range of asset classes, was no longer Annual General Meeting appropriate.
In future we intend to report on our performance by comparing it to the other We will, as always, be holding our Annual global growth and global growth and income General Meeting in Dundee.
This years meeting investment trusts.
will be at the Apex Hotel on Friday 22 May.
The meeting is an excellent opportunity to find out Your Board believes we should incentivise more about the progress of your Company and management on that same basis.
We propose to meet members of the management team.
therefore to change the performance test for I would encourage as many shareholders as our long term incentive plan to one which will possible to attend.
reward performance exceeding the median of our peer group.
This is set out in more detail in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this report.
I am always struck by the dedication that our employees bring to their work and this has been particularly evident this year.
I would like to thank them warmly for their efforts.
Our new headquarters in Marketgait, Dundee will bring together teams currently working in different locations in the city and will improve our operational efficiency, internal communication and teamwork.
Dividend We have continued to receive a strong flow of earnings from our equity portfolio during the year and this has enabled us to maintain our longstanding record of steady increases in the dividend, which has continued for 42 consecutive years.
We declared a fourth interim dividend of 2.0p making a total for the year of 8.0p 2008: 7.9p.
In light of exceptional income earned last year we have also declared a special dividend of 0.5p per share.
