Overview PerFOrMANCe review gOverNANCe FiNANCiAl stAteMeNts AshMOre grOuP PlC Ar 09 PerFOrMANCe review ChAirMANs stAteMeNt 05 Chairmans statement the team at Ashmore has a track record of success built over many years.
The year to 30 June 2009 was one In recognition of the financial performance, The team at Ashmore is committed of unprecedented turbulence in the and our confidence in the Groups to implementing successfully its strategy global economy, which resulted in future prospects, the Directors are of developing a global specialist an extreme reduction in the levels of recommending a final dividend of emerging markets business, with assets leverage deployed across the world 8.34 pence for the year ended 30 June of all classes managed both centrally and a significant reduction of liquidity 2009 which, subject to shareholder and through developing a number and increased volatility throughout approval, will be paid on 4 December of local asset management operations world markets.
As the year ended, 2009 to all shareholders who are on in the key emerging markets.
there were some signs of a recovery the register on 6 November 2009.
This in markets with a more stable set makes a total dividend of 12.0 pence I would like to thank all the members of conditions prevailing.
Against for the year 2008: 12.0 pence.
of the Group for the efforts they continue this background, Ashmore Group to make towards achieving our goals.
Ashmore or the Group has had a During the year ended 30 June 2009, broadly satisfactory year, with a profit The opportunities and challenges that the following Board changes occurred.
before tax of 159.8 million year will be presented in the future will be ended 30 June 2008: 196.2 million.
In September 2008, Jonathan Asquith significant as the global economic joined the Group, having been Vice prospects become ever more influenced see page 15 for further details Chairman and Chief Financial Officer by the emerging markets, where the Over the last year the Group has at Schroders plc.
Initially he was an Group has a track record of success, concentrated on its core capabilities independent non-executive Director built over many years.
of product innovation, asset raising and member of the audit committee.
retention, good investment performance Subsequently he has become Chairman Michael Benson and excellent client service.
At the same of the remuneration committee.
Chairman time, it has continued to strengthen the Jonathans extensive industry business through the recruitment of experience and knowledge have added additional talented individuals within the additional strength to the Board and its central and local asset management committee structure.
At the Groups businesses and through the introduction AGM in October, Jon Moulton retired, of enhanced core systems and operating having been a non-executive Director processes.
The Chief Executive Officers since the Group was established in statement and the Business review 1999.
I should like to thank Jon for the provide further detail on these activities.
very considerable contributions he made over those 10 years.
In June, the Group announced the appointment to the Board of Melda Donnelly, former Chief Executive Officer of Queensland Investment Corporation and current Deputy Chairperson of the Victoria Funds Management Corporation.
Melda has extensive experience of the international pension industry and of institutional shareholder best practice.
I would like to welcome Melda to the Board, and she has also become a member of the audit committee from which I have stepped down.
see page 25 for further details Ashmore R&A09 front n. indd 5 21 9 09 18:14:12
