The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 3 Chairmans Statement Richard Brewster It has been a classic year for Bankers style of investing.
Our Managers careful use of different international markets has delivered results in line with the benchmark despite adopting a portfolio of stocks which were deliberately defensive.
Your Board is pleased that in a period of extreme uncertainty our Manager has protected shareholders funds by minimising risk on the down side without sacrificing performance.
In fact if we look at the last decade it will be remembered as Until February, investors drove economically sensitive sectors being unkind to investors, containing two bear markets and like mining and highly indebted companies into a downward the second lowest period of equity returns, eclipsed only by spiral, with the common view that many would fail.
However, I am pleased to say that your Companys markets bottomed in early March and, unusually, the record shows that the Net Asset Value over the past 10 years subsequent rally was most pronounced in the same stocks and rose by 27%, which compares very favourably with a fall of sectors that led the market down whereas normally a new 11% by the FTSE All-Share Index over the same period.
The bull market is driven by a different group of stocks.
When growth in our dividends has been even better, nearly doubling governments recapitalised the banks, there was little incentive over the 10 years from 6p to 11.5p.
to foreclose on those loans where covenants had been breached and with interest rates low, many companies could Markets continue to service their debt.
A further consequence of low Performance for the year was in line with our benchmark: the interest rates has been a push by investors into alternative Net Asset Value rose by 17.3% while the composite assets because the relative cost of holding non-interest benchmark rose 17.5%.
bearing assets has never been lower.
Commodity prices of everything from metals to foods have been huge beneficiaries Share prices have shown an admirable resilience in terms of from significant investment inflows into exchange traded absorbing bad news and recovering from a period of funds ETFs and hedge funds specialising in commodities.
exceptional turbulence in global markets.
Economic output shrank far quicker than in previous recessions, reflecting how Regionally there has been a marked difference in trade around the world is linked and how little inventory performance, with Pacific and Emerging Markets being the modern businesses carry.
The collapse in trade lasted three areas of greatest appreciation.
Economies in these regions quarters for most countries and a recovery in orders gained have been less affected by the need to bail out domestic momentum early in the summer.
Aggressive policy action by banks and governments typically have fiscal surpluses with governments was required offering financial support to banks which to pump prime domestic activity.
China has kept and programmes to boost consumption, with the cost of investment spending high, which has benefited the whole these actions being funded by increased deficits and Pacific region.
By careful stock selection we have benefited quantitative easing, effectively printing cash.
from positions in mining, gold and financials, and a greater exposure to China.
Economic growth resumed, at least quarter on quarter, in most major countries during the third quarter, although the The Japanese market behaved very defensively during the UK remained in recession until the last quarter of 2009.
Rapid downturn and our stock selection favoured domestic cost cutting has mitigated the effects of a long term companies, which fared better than the exporters.
However, downturn in profits but recovery in revenues will take some the upswing in markets left Japan behind as the economy time, as global trade appears to be 20% lower than at its struggled to cope with an expensive currency that impacted peak two years ago.
Interest rates in all developed markets trade.
We are performing well relative to the local index but, remained at near zero levels for the whole year.
Unfortunately although we reduced exposure in March, the recent banks were more pre-occupied with rebuilding capital and performance has been disappointing and with hindsight a reducing leverage, meaning that the normal transmission greater reduction would have been beneficial.
process of lower rates leading to lending growth has not Europe has been a mixed bag but overall has performed far occurred.
Despite record low interest rates, a secondary factor better than we expected given the rise in the Euro, which has reducing lending is a degree of debt aversion amongst yet to impact the region.
While several countries like Greece, businesses.
UK, Spain and Ireland have developed significant problems 4 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 with fiscal deficits above 10% of GDP, the central core of earnings cover this years distributions.
At this point we Europe has held up well.
The ECB has not been afraid to forecast an increase in the Companys total dividend per share release liquidity into the banking system and coupled with less for 2010 of not less than 4.3% to 12.0p.
leveraged consumers in France and Germany, economic Board Succession growth has bounced back in the third quarter.
The UK David Thomas steps down from the Board at the Annual economy being more reliant on financial services has required General Meeting after serving almost ten years as a Director.
unprecedented levels of state aid to the banking system.
The We have benefited from David's considerable investment resulting recession in the UK is now the longest and deepest experience, his wisdom and his attention to detail, particularly on record but the equity market has been resilient because of during the last two years as Chairman of the Audit its international focus.
Our performance in both Europe and Committee.
We thank him most sincerely for his service and UK has lagged benchmarks due to the narrow leadership of shall miss his contribution.
We look forward to recruiting a markets, which initially focused on banks and resource new non-executive director over the next year.
The increase in appetite for risk has led to an underperformance of our value investment style.
We expect Annual General Meeting the market to rotate and return to rewarding companies that The Annual General Meeting this year will be held at the offices of deliver real growth in earnings and revenue, rather than those Henderson Global Investors, 201 Bishopsgate, London on Tuesday offering recovery potential on expensive valuation multiples.
The notice of the meeting is on America suffered from the same issues as the UK, with a huge page 63 and a map showing the location appears on page 66.
As banking bailout and over-indebted consumers coping with usual our manager, Alex Crooke, and his team will be making a falling house prices.
The culture in the US is to deal with presentation with regard to investment and all shareholders are problems quickly and move on: therefore significant most welcome to attend.
foreclosures and restructurings have led to unemployment over 10%.
The recovery in US share prices in sterling terms has Outlook been our least rewarding investment area geographically over I commented last year that the recession we were experiencing the last year.
Our performance has also lagged the market for would be unlike any since the 1940s and judging from the similar reasons to the underperformance in Europe, as a result scale of bank bailouts and government borrowings, the parallels of our policy of keeping our faith in higher quality businesses are with the pre-war rather than post-war downturns.
The rather than favouring recovering cyclicals or financials.
challenge from this point is to determine the path for recovery Currencies remained volatile but generally have moved in and how economies will respond as liquidity is drained from the our favour.
A greater portion of our portfolio is now invested financial system.
It is difficult to believe that this far from normal recession can be followed by a standard recovery.
overseas than in the UK and weakness in Sterling produces higher capital values and enhances the value of dividends A banking system that is short of capital and over leveraged will we receive.
result in companies having less access to credit and cause economies to grow at slower rates than experienced over the last Revenue and Dividends decade.
However, in the very short term, the recovery from the Over the past year there have been significant cuts to dividends dramatic collapse in trade at the beginning of 2009 will give the and the underlying dividend income from our UK portfolio is illusion that growth is returning at a healthy rate.
Lower growth is down nearly 20% from a year ago, although the reduction is less not necessarily a bad backdrop for equities, as inflation should be pronounced in our European and American portfolios.
Overall, subdued and interest rates will remain low.
we have experienced a fall in total equity dividend income of Quality companies worldwide represent good value and 17% over the past year but we have offset this decline through investors have abandoned them in a rush for recovery increased underwriting income, increased fixed interest bond situations that may well disappoint over this year.
We keep income and recent reclaims of VAT interest.
Despite the difficult our faith in businesses that have invested into the downturn, backdrop for income, our revenue earnings per share only fell by that generate cash rather than consume it and have taken 7.3% and although a rapid resumption in dividend growth is action to address any balance sheet weakness.
This policy unlikely, we do feel that this years earnings per share should should reward patience and offer a safer path to a more represent the low point from which growth will resume next year.
sustainable recovery in asset values.
We are recommending a final dividend of 3.0p, making a total of 11.50p, an increase of 4% for the year.
This is slightly higher than the previous forecast rate for the year and extends our record of consecutive annual increases in dividends to 43 years.
Importantly, in a difficult year when our revenue has fallen, we are still able to increase dividends above the level of inflation and retain a strong position for Richard Brewster, Chairman future growth by not calling on revenue reserves, as our 15 January 2010
