06 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Group Chairmans statement Marcus Agius Barclays recognises the vital economic and social purpose that banks play, and we are committed to meeting our responsibilities to stakeholders and society in general.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 07 Key points Regulation needs to be strengthened but it must not result in a financial system that cannot serve the needs of the global economy 009 has been another difficult year for a number of the major with these international agencies as they work towards determining these economies in the world and this has continued to impact not just standards.
the banking industry, but also our customers and our clients.
It is also important that we do not seek to regulate too hastily or, Despite the exceptional efforts of governments, central bankers in the understandable desire to avoid a repetition of recent events, go too 2and regulators to stabilise matters in the second half of 2008 far in terms of the reform agenda.
Regulation needs to be strengthened particularly in the UK confidence generally continued to decline to but it must not result in a financial system that cannot serve the needs of dangerously low levels in early 2009.
And while conditions improved as the the global economy.
As recent events have shown, the financial sector has year progressed such that essential stability in the financial system has become increasingly interconnected in recent years in support of the trends now been restored the resulting impact in terms of higher global economic in globalisation which have occurred.
It follows that new solutions must growth has still to be felt.
Good progress has been made within the G20 be carefully balanced and fully thought through and agreed before forum as to the nature and extent of future regulations for the banking implementation.
We must take the time properly to understand the industry and there is a reasonable measure of international consensus as to consequences and in particular the cumulative impact of the regulatory the future measures which will need to be implemented.
Regulation remains reforms being contemplated.
We must ensure that the end result achieves the focus of intense international debate, however, and much work remains three objectives: to be done in order to deliver an effective solution on a co-ordinated basis.
First, a safer and more secure financial system: At Barclays we believe it is important that the banking industry itself learns the lessons from the crisis given the economic and financial costs that Second, a banking industry that is well equipped to support the needs have arisen.
I said in my report to shareholders last year and I repeat it now of the global economy: and that we very much regret the problems that banks have caused.
We also Third, the ability of the suppliers of capital to earn an economic return acknowledge and are grateful for the help and assistance given to the on their capital.
banking sector by governments across the world.
We are determined that there must be no repeat of the turmoil that has affected the industry and All parties need to have confidence that any new regulation will be effective, wider economy, and fully recognise that changes have to be made.
Banks but it must not be so heavy-handed as to restrict the banking industrys must earn once more the confidence and trust of key stakeholders such as ability to support economic growth or to limit its ability to attract new capital customers and clients, employees, shareholders, regulators, politicians and in the future.
While much remains to be done in this respect, we should Barclays own focus in 2009 was to maintain strategic momentum not lose sight of what has already been achieved, particularly in the UK, in despite the difficult environment.
In particular, we have: terms of strengthening capital ratios and improving liquidity across the Significantly strengthened our capital and liquidity positions and reduced sector, whilst also reducing leverage.
our leverage: The regulatory reform agenda is a vital component of rebuilding confidence and trust and providing a healthy, stable and sound financial Focused on our customers and clients: system, but it is essential that this agenda produces a level playing field Managed the business through the economic downturn, by a internationally.
Both financial and human capital are mobile and in the combination of income growth, strong cost control and careful risk absence of internationally agreed standards, such capital will migrate to take management: and advantage of differences in regulation.
We therefore welcome the efforts by bodies such as the Financial Stability Board and the Basel Committee to Contributed to the evolving debate on the future of the industry.
produce internationally agreed standards and we will continue to co-operate 08 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Group Chairmans statement continued Compensation has been the subject of considerable comment over the industry, through its core activities of payments, delivering safe storage for last 12 months.
We understand public concerns over bank bonuses and are deposits, lending, asset management and investment banking, plays a key fully committed to implementing the Financial Stability Board Implementation role in the smooth functioning and well being of economies.
We exist to Standards endorsed by the G20 and the FSA Remuneration Code.
We will enable our customers to achieve and progress their financial objectives.
And ensure that our remuneration systems do not reward failure but only reward it will be critical to the future growth of the global economy that integrated long-term success and only on a risk adjusted basis.
The Board HR and banks such as Barclays are able to continue to finance the increase in global Remuneration Committee has exercised careful governance over the trade that has led to such an increase in living standards in both developed process for determining overall levels of compensation with the objective and developing economies.
of maximising long-term shareholder value by restricting compensation At Barclays, we are committed to meeting our responsibilities to to the minimum level consistent with retaining high quality employees in stakeholders.
These include customers and clients, shareholders, an intensely competitive international marketplace for talent.
A full report employees, government and regulators and society in general.
We recognise is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 170 to 186. in particular that we have a responsibility to: Looking forward, the competitive and regulatory environment will be Support appropriate risk-taking by customers: very different from the recent past.
Barclays strategy will evolve in response to these changes but we remain committed to the universal banking model Treat our customers fairly: since we believe that the diversification benefits of this model have Invest for the future: protected shareholders from the worst effects of the crisis over the last two years.
And as the global economy becomes more interlinked, it will continue Act as a responsible global citizen: to require integrated and international banks that are able to serve the needs Pay responsibly: of the increasing number of large multinational companies and other major clients, such as sovereign governments themselves that require a broad Manage our affairs prudently and in a way that creates confidence: range of services from their banks, including credit provision, payments Produce good returns for our shareholders: and capability, access to the capital markets and the ability to manage the financial risks they face, such as interest rate, foreign exchange rate and Pay our fair share of taxes to the revenue authorities.
These have been and will be our guiding lights as we seek to regain the trust This requirement to serve the needs of our customers and clients and confidence of stakeholders.
And we are under no illusion that this will highlights the economic and social roles played by banks.
The banking take time and that we will be judged by our actions.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 09 Banks must recognise that we must earn once more the confidence and trust of key stakeholders such as customers and clients, employees, shareholders, regulators, politicians and society in general Barclays focus in 2009 was to maintain strategic momentum despite the difficult environment Board changes There have been a number of Board changes during the year with five 35bn of new lending to UK Directors leaving the Board and two new non-executive Directors being appointed.
I stated in last years report that Sir Nigel Rudd and Professor households and businesses Dame Sandra Dawson would retire at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Stephen Russell retired in October after nine years dedicated service, of all sizes including six years sterling work as Chairman of the Board Audit Committee.
Patience Wheatcroft retired from the Board in order to take up a position as Editor in Chief, Wall Street Journal Europe.
All made a valuable contribution, Barclays continues to support businesses throughout particularly during the recent crisis, and we wish them well.
Amongst the the downturn executive Directors, we were sad to see Frits Seegers leave the Group in November following changes to the structure of the Group.
On behalf of the Local businesses and start-ups supported through the Board, I would like to thank Frits for his significant efforts on Barclays behalf Enterprise Finance Guarantee EFG and wish him success for the future.
We appointed two new non-executive Directors during the year, Simon t the beginning of 2009, we committed to making an Fraser and Reuben Jeffery.
Simon brings valuable experience from his time as additional 11bn new credit available to the UK economy.
Chief Investment Officer for Fidelity International and Reuben has extensive At the end of 2009, the actual figure was over 35bn experience in investment banking, regulation and government services.
with around half to businesses, including support for Amore business start-ups in 2009 than for many years.
A particular focus has been on viable local businesses that, because they cannot offer sufficient security to meet normal commercial lending, would not otherwise be able to obtain finance for their business to survive and grow.
We announced a further 88m in early 2010 to lend through the EFG, to help more businesses obtain finance.
Under the Marcus Agius scheme the Government guarantees a proportion of the lending if Group Chairman the customer is unable to repay the debt and loans are available to 9th March 2010 businesses with sales turnover of up to 25m operating in the UK.
We have worked closely with the Government on the scheme and have already made available over 150m in EFG loans in the last year.
We have been a leading supporter of support schemes for local businesses since the downturn began.
In addition to providing nearly one in every four EFG loans across the UK last year, we continued to provide loans receiving European Investment Bank EIB support in 2009 with over 330m of finance approved as eligible for EIB cash back.
For more information on Barclays lending go to www.
