06 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Chairmans Statement Hans-Jrg Rudloff Chairman BlueBay Asset Management plc has successfully navigated a year of significant changes and emerged well positioned to take advantage of the nascent credit cycle.
By any measure, the events of the year to June 2009 have been tumultuous.
The global banking crisis triggered by the collapse of Lehman Brothers last September led to the evaporation of confidence in counterparty solvency.
Financial markets cannot function properly without this confidence and so liquidity disappeared from the markets for many of the products in which BlueBay invests on behalf of its clients.
The price of traded credit escalated to levels which have not been seen before in modern financial markets.
For the time being, massive government intervention around the globe has stabilised the worlds banking sector and brought its financial markets back from the brink.
As a result, credit markets have staged a recovery starting in the early spring of 2009.
Time will tell how sustainable this proves to be.
During the course of this year, BlueBay attracted net subscriptions of $5.8 billion bringing total Assets under Management AuM to a record of $24.3 billion at the end of the financial year, another remarkable achievement.
BlueBay also saw an acceleration of the growth of its longonly asset management business.
BlueBays long-only products had net inflows of $7.3 billion during the year to reach a total AuM for these products of $21.5 billion at the year-end.
Over the same period, BlueBays long short products more than halved due to net redemptions, voluntary deleveraging and negative investment performance resulting in total AuM for these products of $2.8 billion at the year end.
Executive Summary 07 BlueBay is well positioned to take advantage of the nascent credit cycle.
BlueBays Investment Grade Bond Fund During the course of the year, BlueBay has There were no changes to the members of continued to generate investment continued to make improvements to a number the Board or the Company Secretary during performance at the top of its competitive of areas of its internal control environment.
the course of the year and none are planned universe throughout the year.
We believe Once again this was reviewed and reported for the coming year.
I am pleased to note that investment grade products represent the on by  LLP under the that the Board continued to provide BlueBay ideal strategy for risk-averse investors wishing framework of the control objectives applicable with constructive support and advice through to invest into credit in the early part of the to asset management businesses developed by these most challenging of times.
The combination of the right the Audit and Assurance Faculty of the Institute of the various committees contained later in product available at the right time provided of Chartered Accountants in England and this report provide an overview of the various the engine for much of BlueBays strong Wales as Standard 01 06. matters they have considered during the year.
The relative investment performance of the high yield product was strong in the Despite the reduced profitability of the year All asset managers are essentially people latter part of 2008 but has lagged behind ended 30 June 2009, the Board is optimistic businesses.
Over the years, BlueBay has its benchmark during the rally in the first about BlueBays prospects for the years to assembled an exceptionally talented group of half of 2009.
I am pleased to report that the come.
In the first two months of the financial professionals in the investment management, investment performance in the long short year 2010, fund inflows have remained strong sales and marketing and infrastructure teams.
multi-strategy and the long-only emerging and investment performance has been This has not been an easy year and the fact market debt strategy have recovered strongly maintained or improved in most products.
that BlueBay has emerged from it so strongly in the six months to June 2009.
Given the Groups solid cash position and is testimony to the determination, creativity its cushion of reserves, we will be proposing and commitment of its employees.
I would The fees earned on long-only products to maintain the final dividend of 4.8 pence like to thank them once again for their are lower than those earned on long short per share payable to all shareholders on the efforts.
Finally, I would like to extend my products.
A consequence of the evolution register at 6 November 2009.
Following the thanks to our shareholders, both those who of BlueBays business during the year is interim dividend of 1.7 pence per share, this have stayed with us throughout the year as that its overall revenues have declined.
The will bring the total dividend for the year to well as those more recent investors, for their management team of BlueBay has reviewed 6.5 pence per share.
the Groups cost base and has taken various measures to reduce it.
With a cost base which is largely driven by compensation costs, regrettably measures inevitably included reducing the number of people employed by BlueBay.
These reductions have been achieved without either impairing BlueBays ability to exploit the opportunities created by the turn in the credit cycle or compromising on the rigour of the processes and controls in operation at BlueBay.
In times of significant market turmoil, a reliable control environment and solid business risk management processes are more important than ever.
