BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholder The Company enjoyed a very successful 2009 with a significant increase in both net asset value per share Sterling Shares: 21.54% and share price Sterling Shares 53.5%.
As equity market conditions improved toward the end of the year, and the Companys shares returned to a premium to net asset value, we were also pleased to complete a further placing and offer for subscription of C shares in December 2009 which raised 101 million.
This capital raising exercise has further improved the liquidity of the Companys shares which the Board believes is in the interests of all shareholders.
Investment Performance During 2009, the published Sterling Share NAV rose from 125.26p to 152.24p, a return of 21.54% for the year.
This represented the strongest year for investment performance since the Companys inception in 2006, and the Board is advised that it resulted from an unusually attractive environment for trading based strategies that persisted throughout the year, which led to higher allocations to such strategies than in prior years.
AllBlue, into which the Company invests, recorded twelve consecutive months of positive performance during the year, with all six strategies into which it was invested for the full year delivering a positive return.
The report by BlueCrest, the manager of AllBlue, on pages 13 to 26 contains a more detailed review of the returns for the year from the different underlying strategies.
This represents continued strong and consistent performance relative to alternative asset management indices and to broader asset classes in general: 2009 2008 HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index USD 20.0% -19.0% MSCI World Index Gross Total Return USD 30.8% -40.3% BarclaysCap Global Bond Index USD 6.5% 6.8% Sterling Share NAV 21.54% 12.12% Risk Management and Liquidity BlueCrest has advised the Board that its risk management practices and procedures remained in full operation throughout the year.
It has further advised the Board that the underlying funds into which AllBlue invests continue to be highly liquid and that levels of leverage employed in the trading strategies are consistent with prior years.
The weighted average unencumbered cash within the underlying funds, a measure of the implicit leverage within the margin-based strategies employed by the underlying funds, stood at 58% as at 31 December 2009, in line with historical levels.
10 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Share Price Performance Having started the year at a significant discount to net asset value, the market price of a Sterling Share appreciated significantly, from 103.75p to 159.30p.
Discounts across the sector were significantly reduced during the year, and the Companys shares began to trade at a premium in the final quarter, reflecting investors appreciation of the liquidity and strong performance of the Company.
During 2009, continuation votes were triggered for each of the Companys share classes, reflecting the significant discounts prevalent across the sector during late 2008 and 2009.
The Board notes the outcome of the continuation votes held at the class meetings of the Company on 12 August 2009, when shareholders for all three classes voted in favour of continuation.
The average discounts over the year for each of the Sterling, Euro and US Dollar Share classes were 4.2%, 5.2% and 4.7%, respectively.
Further Placing and Offer for Subscription of C Shares The Company announced on 31 March 2010 its intention to raise further investment capital and it is intended that this will be a placing and offer for subscription of C shares.
If completed, this would constitute the third such capital raising by the Company, following successful issues in July 2008 and December 2009.
The Board believes that increasing the net asset value and number of shares in issue will further increase liquidity in the shares for the benefit of all shareholders.
The Board has also sought assurances from BlueCrest that the underlying funds into which AllBlue invests have sufficient capacity for further investment.
Subject to investors appetite for further investment, overall market conditions and the availability of capacity in AllBlue, it remains the Boards intention to grow the net assets of the Company through further capital issuance over time.
Outlook The Company has enjoyed a positive start to 2010, and has been advised by BlueCrest that the investment environment for the underlying funds into which AllBlue invests remains attractive.
I look forward to reporting to you again in the Half-Yearly Financial Report for the period ended 30 June 2010.
