Executive Chairmans Statement In a year which has seen financial markets across the globe go Investment Banking through perhaps the most difficult times in living memory, I am Despite operating in a very tough trading environment, our pleased to report that Brewin Dolphin has been able to sail a Investment Banking division importantly remained profitable, relatively steady course through some pretty rough seas.
I believe reflecting the flexibility of its business model.
this gives shareholders grounds for continued confidence in the A year ago the outlook for our Investment Banking division was fundamental strengths and resilience of the business.
somewhat uncertain but we remained confident that the short term Total income for the year to 27 September 2009 was 212.3 impact would be containable.
Having reported an operating loss of million, 2.8% up on last year, against a fall in the FTSE 100 average 0.8 million at the interim stage excluding redundancy costs, the level across each financial year of 21.6%.
Pre-tax profits excluding division has been able to end the year in the black.
Trading activity redundancy costs and amortisation of the intangible asset client and the level of enquiries that are being received suggest that the relationships were 32.1 million, 12.7% down on last year.
Pre-tax outlook for the current year is somewhat more encouraging.
Dividend Investment Management The Board is proposing a final dividend of 3.55p, to be approved at Our mainstream Investment Management business continued to the 2010 AGM and payable on 1 April 2010. make material progress, adding substantially to our funds under Regulation management.
The events of the last two years mean that the role of regulation in Investment Management is by far and away the largest part of your the affairs of your Group will remain significant and it continues to Groups activities and once again performed well in an be very much the policy of your Board to see that the Group fully extraordinarily turbulent year.
Indeed it has been gratifying to note meets the standards and requirements of modern day regulation.
In that the business has seen a material inflow of funds during the this ever evolving environment it is important that your Board keeps period reflecting a combination of our clients confidence in our the Groups level of capital adequacy under review.
business and our ability to provide clear and straight forward long Board Changes term investment strategies.
The divisions income rose by 5.3% Nick H ood, David McCorkell, Michael Williams and Jock Worsley will during the period and profits excluding redundancy costs and be standing for re-election at the AGM and I commend them to you.
amortisation of client relationships by 3.1%.
Total funds under management increased from 18.7bn to 20.5bn, a 9.6% increase Two Directors retired from the Board at the year end, Christopher with, most importantly, discretionary funds rising by 15.7%.
During Legge and Simon Still.
Simon Still joined the Group at the time of the same period the FTSE100 index fell by 0.1% and the FTSE the acquisition of Wise Speke and the Board in 2001 as Chief APCIMS Private Investor Series Balanced Portfolio rose by 2.1%.
Simon was responsible for our business support operations.
This part of the Group is very often less visible than the We have continued to benefit from the arrival of new Investment client facing side, but its contribution to client service should not be Managers and Financial Planners and I would anticipate this being underestimated.
I would like to put on record the Boards a feature again in the coming year.
We now have a network of forty appreciation of Simons efforts in charge of this part of the Group.
offices throughout the UK providing good national coverage.
While I should not rule out one or two further new openings, it is your Christopher Legge remains actively involved in managing clients Boards intention that the main thrust of future growth within the UK affairs albeit no longer every day of the week.
As a relative be centred on the existing offices as we leverage the network now newcomer to the Group it is not easy for me to put into words in place.
In parallel with this we continue to put special emphasis adequately Christophers contribution over nearly 50 years.
He is on the maintenance and development of our business support very much one of the founding fathers of Brewin Dolphin and his operations to improve further our efficiency and our client services.
04 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC WE HAVE ALWAYS BELIEVED IN LONG TERM PRUDENT EQUITY BASED INVESTMENT AND....
THE MERITS OF passionate belief in behaving with the utmost integrity and looking after the best interests of clients is a fine legacy that he leaves us.
DIVIDEND AS A Christophers contribution at Board level has been invaluable and he has never failed to deliver a reasoned, always valuable and not SOUND METHOD infrequently passionate point of view.
I thank both these gentlemen for their contribution to the affairs of your Group.
OF RETURN TO Strategy and Re-branding INVESTORS Brewin Dolphins strategy remains to grow our business to the benefit of our shareholders by maintaining the quality and increasing the depth of service to our clients.
Following our re-branding last year and the amalgamation of our divisions under the Brewin Dolphin name, we have this year sponsored a number of events which have raised significant sums for charity.
The most notable of these was our sponsorship of Sir Ranulph Fiennes third and successful attempt to climb Everest which helped him reach his goal of raising a remarkable 3m for Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Outlook The performance for the year is the result of the hard work of Brewin Dolphin people and the continued support of our clients, for which we are extremely grateful.
I believe the results achieved by your Group give justifiable cause for pride, particularly given the extraordinary circumstances of the last year.
As a firm we have always believed in the merits of long term prudent equity based investment and have never lost sight of the merits of dividend as a sound method of return to investors.
This approach has played no small part in allowing us to grow funds under management this year.
I believe the debt culture, so prevalent in the last decade, is at last being seen for what it is, so its diminution continues to bode well for our Group.
Current trading continues to be satisfactory although we should not assume that the economic woes of this country and the rest of the world are completely behind us.
Your Board remains confident about the future prospects of Brewin Dolphin.
Jamie Matheson 1 December 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 05
