Chairmans Statement Companys share price total return for the year was 15.8 per cent, and the debt-adjusted discount at the end of the year was 6.9 per cent, compared to 8.0 per cent on 30 September 2008.
As previously reported, during the year the Board agreed with the Managers that the Companys overseas portfolios would be consolidated into two portfolios, a global developed markets portfolio and a global emerging markets portfolio.
This change has meant moving away from regional portfolios based on geographic domicile.
The reason for the change is to provide greater focus on the best individual investment opportunities overseas.
It is pleasing to report that, in the first year of adopting this new approach for managing the William Thomson Chairman overseas portfolios, the results have been encouraging, with the net effect of global asset The year ended 30 September 2009 was a allocation and stock selection contributing turbulent period for financial markets around the positively to the performance for the year.
Stockmarkets fell sharply during the first emerging markets portfolio performed particularly half of the year as concerns continued over the well, in terms of both stock selection and asset health of the financial sector and the global allocation.
The global developed markets portfolio economy.
As economic growth slowed, also outperformed during the year.
The UK governments and central banks announced portfolio underperformed, principally because of significant stimulus packages in an attempt to halt higher dividend yielding stocks, upon which the the decline.
This strategy appears to have had Company is heavily reliant, generally lagging the some success with evidence of improvement in market.
The stockmarket rally was led by cyclical global economic conditions now appearing.
companies, which typically pay lower levels of Stockmarkets have reacted positively to this dividends, and the major banks, most of which prospect, with returns in the last quarter of the are currently not paying dividends.
The corporate bond portfolio contributed Against this backdrop, the Companys net asset positively to performance after a difficult year in value total return for the year ended 2008.
In addition, it continued to be an important 30 September 2009 was 13.8 per cent.
This contributor to the Revenue Account.
compares favourably with the total return of 11.1 per cent from the composite benchmark The table overleaf provides a breakdown of the index of 75 per cent FTSE All-Share Index and estimated contributions to the net asset value 25 per cent FTSE World ex UK Index.
The total return for the year: Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3 Chairmans Statement continued very low interest rates on its bank deposits.
The Attribution of Return Board considers the Companys dividend to be one of its key attractions.
The Board has Market benchmark return 11.1% therefore considered carefully the revenue Stock selection forecast for the forthcoming year, and the size of UK equities 3.9 the Companys revenue reserve, to ensure that Overseas equities 0.5 the dividend level continues to be sustainable.
Asset allocation 3.7 Following this review, it is the Boards current intention that the three interim dividends for the Corporate bonds 0.2 year ended 30 September 2010 will each be Gearing 2.6 maintained at 1.442p per share.
The Board Cash other 0.1 considers it likely that the level of the final Share buy backs 0.0 dividend will be maintained but will keep the Expenses net of VAT related recoveries 0.3 possibility of an increase under review as the year progresses.
British Assets Trust net asset value total return 13.8% Gearing At 30 September 2009 the Companys level of gearing, net of cash, was 21.0 per cent.
This was Earnings and Dividends represented by equity gearing of 5.5 per cent and The Companys revenue earnings for the year 15.5 per cent in corporate bonds.
Three interim dividends of 1.442p per share were paid during The Companys borrowing facilities comprise a the year and the Board recommends payment of 60 million 6.25 per cent Bond which is due for a final dividend of 1.786p per share, payable on redemption in 2031 and a 60 million bank 8 January 2010 to shareholders on the register revolving credit facility, 27.7 million of which was on 11 December 2009.
This brings the total drawn down at the year end.
dividend for the year to 6.112p per share, representing an increase of 3.0 per cent from the ShareBuyBacks previous year.
The Company purchased 1,500,000 shares for cancellation during the year, for an aggregate During the year, the Revenue Account was consideration of 1.6 million.
affected by dividend cuts by the major UK banks and significantly reduced interest rates on bank The Company will seek to renew its share buy deposits.
However, it did benefit from good back authority at the Annual General Meeting.
dividend growth in certain sectors, in particular oils, pharmaceuticals and telecoms.
It also VAT on Management Fees benefited from the recovery of VAT on As previously reported to shareholders, following management fees and associated interest, as the European Court of Justice ruling in June 2007 explained in more detail below.
that investment trusts should be regarded as special investment funds, investment Whilst there are indications that dividend cuts management fees paid by the Company are no have peaked and that there may be modest longer subject to VAT.
dividend growth in the year ahead, it will take time for the Companys income levels to return to During the year, the Managers continued to liaise those of previous years.
In addition, the Company with HM Revenue & Customs to recover, on the is likely to continue to be adversely affected by Companys behalf, VAT paid previously on 4 British Assets Trust plc investment management fees.
The accounts The Notice of the Meeting is contained on pages include a recovery of VAT and associated interest 53 to 55 and shareholders will find a Proxy Form of 2.5 million.
Of this amount, 2.3 million was enclosed with the Annual Report.
Shareholders credited to the Revenue Account, providing an who are unable to attend the Annual General enhancement of 0.8p per share to the revenue Meeting are encouraged to complete and return earnings for the period.
The balance was credited their forms to the Companys registrars.
Outlook Board Composition Whilst there are signs that global economic Having served as a Director since 1974 and as conditions are starting to improve, there remain Chairman since 1995, I will retire from the Board significant uncertainties over the strength of the at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The historically high levels of debt in Dr Christopher Masters, who joined the Board in some developed economies and continuing 1990, will also retire at that time.
On behalf of the constraints over the availability of credit are likely Board I would like to thank Dr Masters for the to hinder growth for several years to come.
In the significant contribution he has made to the shorter term, rising unemployment is also likely to Company during his time as a Director.
As previously announced, Ms Lynn Ruddick, who The uncertain outlook could result in volatile joined the Board in 2004, will succeed me as financial markets in the year ahead.
I have every confidence in her ability to with monetary policy likely to continue to remain lead the Board in the future.
accommodative and, with an improved outlook for corporate earnings, it should be a reasonable Annual General Meeting period for equities and corporate bonds.
The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on Thursday 17 December 2009, at the offices of F&C Asset Management plc, 80 George Street, Edinburgh.
It will be followed by a presentation from the Companys lead fund manager, Julie Dent.
This is a good opportunity for shareholders to meet the Directors and WREThomson Managers and shareholders are therefore Chairman encouraged to attend.
