British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Chairmans Statement The period under review which covers 1st October our Japanese property related investments have 2008 to 30th September 2009 has been perhaps been reduced, resulting in our exposure to Japan the most remarkable one for the investment falling from 12.2% to 7.4%.
As the financial crisis The Companys shares have traded over the unfolded the first and second quarters proved to past year within a relatively narrow range around be exceptionally volatile and difficult and our total NAV between 10% premium 6% 2007 8 return Net Asset Value NAV was down over and 10% discount 12% 2007 8.
We continue 10% at the half year end our benchmark, the to monitor carefully the level of both premium and Fundamental Data Global Growth Investment discount and will, if necessary and appropriate, Trust Index, was down nearly 16%.
take steps to limit the volatility of any discount However, the second half of our financial year, through measured buybacks of shares.
In line from the end of March through to the end of with this continuing policy, the Board is again September was in stark contrast.
Following seeking to renew its powers to buy back the stimulatory measures taken by central banks Companys shares.
Strone Macpherson Chairman in many countries, financial markets globally In contrast to 2007 8, our income from UK gilts recovered their poise in remarkable fashion has declined by some 49.2% during 2008 9 as and appetite for risk increased substantially.
portfolio liquidity has declined and interest rates The period has Over our financial year as a whole, our NAV reduced.
Underlying dividend income has fallen been perhaps total return has been 17.8%, significantly by 1.9% with the result that gross revenues of the most outperforming our benchmark index which 20.7m in 2008 9 are lower than the 23.3m advanced by a more modest 9.1%, while the achieved in 2007 8.
The base Investment remarkable broad MSCI World Index rose by 9.6%.
Management fee is, however, also lower, because one for the of the reduced value of the portfolio, so net Over three years, your Companys NAV total investment revenue per share is down a more modest 5.7%.
return per share has been 9.1% against 3.5% We have benefited from a VAT repayment of community in for the benchmark, over five years 79.5% 960,163, which compares to last years against 52.5% for the benchmark and over 10 a generation repayment of 2,066,939.
The VAT repayment years 215.4% against 52.3% for the benchmark.
amounts to 0.60p per share in total, of which The recent difficult market conditions have also 0.52p is attributable to income.
There remains produced attractive investment opportunities for the possibility that we may recover further us.
As the Managers report sets out later, we moneys, but given the uncertainty of this, no have been able to add further to some of our long further VAT reimbursement has been recognised term holdings at distressed valuations, representing in these accounts.
a good store of value for the future.
We have once We are recommending a final dividend of 4.20p again stuck to our knitting, investing mainly in 4.00p in 2008 which, together with the interim companies with little or no gearing but standing dividend of 1.80p 1.75p in 2008, brings the at a substantial discount to their NAV.
ordinary dividends for the year to 6.00p 5.75p in With this sharp recovery in markets since the half 2008, an increase of 4.3%.
On top of this we are year end, the Companys portfolio of investments recommending a special dividend of 1.25p, down stood at the year end at an average discount of from 1.50p last year, principally because of the approximately 22% to their underlying asset value, smaller VAT repayment.
On this basis overall total the discount having narrowed appreciably over dividends would therefore be 7.25p, the same as the period from 29% at last year end.
Nevertheless, we caution that dividend will also note that after a period of relative strength, progress in the future may be more difficult than in 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 recent years, given the expected continuing weak on 3 August 2009, and other minor technical world economy and low interest rate environment.
A summary of the proposed changes is set out in the Appendix During what has been a turbulent year, liquidity to this Annual Report.
levels have moved between a low of 5% in March and about 15%, affording investors some cushion Since the year end, the markets have given against the worst effects of the extreme distress back some of their gains with the Companys 1 seen in the markets between last autumn and the Net Asset Value declining 3.2% while the early spring.
Fundamental Data Global Growth Investment 1 Trust Index declined by 3.1% and the MSCI In an unusual development, the Board decided 1 World Index declined by 4.7%.
At the time of to reduce temporarily the Companys exposure writing, our liquidity levels had risen to almost to the yen and the euro after a period of extreme 1 20%.
sterling weakness, and profits from these decisions, which have now been closed off, Performance over the year was strong, but your amounted to 7.9m.
board remains concerned that the need for both financial institutions and individuals to continue to At the Nomination Committee, the Board has deleverage and for governments to finance their again completed a formal evaluation of the unprecedented indebtedness, may undermine the Directors, the Chairman, the Board itself and sustainability of any improvement in economies its Committees.
Steve Bates retires by rotation and financial markets.
The threat of significantly at this years Annual General Meeting and will higher taxation and large cuts in government offer himself for re-election.
The Nomination spending may also combine to make the Committee has considered again his qualifications, investment environment difficult for some time.
performance and contribution to the Board and It is also unclear what the medium term effects its Committees and confirms that he continues of the current easy monetary conditions will be to be effective and demonstrates commitment on a range of asset classes.
These uncertainties to his role and the board recommends to the reinforce the boards wish to spread the shareholders that he be re-elected.
The Board Companys investments even more judiciously has also carried out the same thorough review by currency and activity.
process of myself as Chairman and has concluded, after reviewing my qualifications, Despite these cautious remarks, your board is performance and contribution as Chairman confident that the Companys investment manager, that I should be put forward for re-election.
AVI, will continue, by careful selection of stocks, to produce satisfactory returns for shareholders Resolution 11 in the Notice of Meeting proposes over the medium and long term.
that the Company adopt new Articles of Association.
New Articles of Association were adopted in 2008 to reflect changes in company law brought about by the initial stages of the implementation of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
The adoption of the new Articles at this years AGM incorporates further amendments to reflect the changes in company law brought about by the final stages of the implementation Strone Macpherson of the 2006 Act, which came into effect on Chairman 1 October 2009, the Companies Shareholders' 16 November 2009 Rights Regulations 2009 which came into effect 1 Data to 31 October 2009 7
