The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 3 Chairmans Statement For the year ended 30 June 2009, City of London increased its dividend by 6.2% and added 2.0 million to its revenue reserve.
This is the forty-third consecutive year that City of London has increased its dividend, the longest record of any investment trust.
The net asset value total return declined by 20.9%, broadly in line with market trends.
Simon fide Zoete Performance for the year to 30 June 2009 Performance for the five years to 30 June 2009 Earnings and dividends Earnings and dividends Revenue return per share was 13.15p, a decrease of 2.8%.
A The Companys annual dividend has grown by 47.9% over the write-back of VAT and associated interest, of which 1,366,000 last five years from 8.33p to 12.32p and revenue reserves have was credited to the revenue account, helped offset some of the increased from 5.10p to 13.36p per share.
effect of the overall decline in dividends from UK companies.
A Net asset value total return fourth interim dividend of 3.08p was paid on 28 August 2009 Shareholders net asset value total return has increased by 12.8% making a total for the year of 12.32p, an increase of 6.2% over over the last five years, which compares with 7.9% for the the previous year.
average of the UK Growth & Income investment trust sector.
Over In the previous two years, 4.7 million and 3.2 million this period, shares with above average yield underperformed the respectively were added to the revenue reserve.
The total revenue indices, with the FTSE All-Share 4% Capped Index returning reserve is now 27.9 million, which compares with the cost of last 19.8% and the FTSE All-Share Index 16.3%.
In the current year following Expenses dividend cuts by a number of companies in which we are The total expense ratio TER which is the investment management invested, our income is expected to be lower than in 2008 09. fee and other non-interest expenses as a percentage of Given the strength of the revenue reserve, however, the Board is shareholder funds, was 0.4% which is very competitive compared able to maintain the minimum quarterly dividend of 3.08p per with other investment trusts and with other actively managed share.
The quarterly rate will next be considered when the third equity funds.
With effect from 1 July 2009 we are introducing interim dividend is declared in March 2010, by which time the new performance fee arrangements to align the Managers Board will be able to assess better the trend in income remuneration more closely with the long term interests of performance of the portfolio.
shareholders and the Companys investment objectives.
Full details Net asset value total return of these new arrangements are set out on page 17.
For any funds that have an income requirement and tend to Outlook concentrate on companies that create cash flow and steadily As anticipated in my half year statement, many companies have increase their dividends, this has been a difficult 12 months.
cut or passed their dividends since January 2009.
This has an Relative to the index, it has been a year of two halves.
In the first impact on the range of companies that our Manager can half, the net asset value total return outperformed by 6.4 prudently include in the portfolio because our priority is to invest percentage points as a result of the defensive bias in the in quality companies with good dividend payment potential.
In the second half, low yielding cyclical stocks led the Current valuations of many of these companies are attractive by market, especially the large mining sector.
In addition, many historic standards as are their dividend yields.
investors funded the rights issues from companies with weak balance sheets by selling some of their defensive holdings that Our shares are on a prospective yield of 5.5% as at the end of had held up relatively well.
Over the year, City of Londons net August and offer excellent value relative to bank deposit rates asset value total return had a negative total return of 20.9%, and Government gilts.
After two serious bear markets in the past slightly underperforming the index, which had a negative total 10 years, we believe that the portfolio offers good longer term return of 20.1%, and the average performance of the UK Growth potential for income and capital growth.
& Income sector, which had a negative total return of 20.7%.
Board Overall, City of Londons stock selection made a positive Due to increasing business commitments in the United States, contribution of 1.9% with a significantly below average exposure Angus Russell resigned from the Board on 30 June 2009.
We to the bank sector helping.
On the other hand, City of Londons would like to thank Angus for his contribution and input during gearing, which was maintained in a range of between 9.0% and the six years he served as a director.
We were delighted that 12.4% during the year, detracted from return by 2.65%.
Gearing David Brief joined the Board on 1 January 2009. can enhance returns in a rising equity market but this was not the Annual general meeting direction of the market in this 12 month period.
Shareholders are invited to the annual general meeting on City of Londons share price performed better than its net asset Thursday 15 October 2009 at 201 Bishopsgate, London value, with the result that the discount to net asset value with EC2M 3AE.
The meeting will start at 3pm and will include debt at par value narrowed over the year from 13.2% to 3.2%.
a presentation from the Portfolio Manager.
