ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:06 Page 8 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT OVERVIEW In 2008, the Board indicated that the Group was already experiencing the effects of what might become a deep economic downturn.
Looking at the situation one year on, the recession has proved to be every bit as bad as anticipated and while the worst seems to be over, there is little sign yet of any meaningful improvement in trading conditions.
Following the disposal of the Testing division in the final quarter of 2008, the Board announced the appointment of Stephen Harris as the new Chief Executive with effect from the start of 2009.
In his first year he has led a major transformation exercise concentrating to date on three specific areas: Following an in-depth strategic review, the Groups operations and organisation are now focused on its core technologies and key markets.
A major restructuring programme has taken place, addressing the sharp reduction in demand and reducing the fixed and variable cost base.
The results of this are now contributing to the improved operational results.
Linked to the strategic review, a full evaluation of management strength in all disciplines has been carried out.
This has resulted in a number of new appointments already, as part of delayering the organisation, and several positions will be filled in the first half of 2010.
In the absence of any significant trading upturn, it is still too early to see the full impact of these initiatives.
Nevertheless, the Board ALAN THOMSON expects that with a revitalised management team focused on key Chairman markets and core technologies, together with a reduction in the proportion of low value-added activities, the Group should soon be reporting improved results.
The full benefit will only be realised when sustainable growth returns to our major areas of activity.
PREPARED 8 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:06 Page 9 GROUP RESULTS BOARD The difficulties encountered by most of the businesses are clearly The Non-executive Directors play a vital role in the governance reflected in the 2009 results.
Revenue from operations declined of the Company and a key measure of Bodycotes success is their by 21.1% to 435.4m.
At constant rates of exchange, the sales ability to provide wise counsel to the members of the executive reduction exceeded 29%.
To compensate for the loss of business, team.
The Board pays great attention to its corporate governance employee numbers have been reduced by a similar proportion and responsibilities and each year undertakes a review of its own 25 of the original 203 operating sites have been closed.
It is pleasing to report that after a number of changes recovery in the second half of 2009 has started to reflect these in 2007 and 2008 the new Board is performing well, with each member adjustments to the cost base, although the full effect of the changes contributing positively.
will not be evident until the second half of 2010. DIVIDEND It was pleasing to note that the focus on cash management resulted The Board considered carefully the level of dividend to be paid in a satisfactory year end position.
The cash cost of re-organising the out to shareholders following the 2009 results.
Having maintained Groups activities was largely funded by a sharp reduction in working the half year payout at the 2008 level, Board members felt that capital such that the 20.8m increase in net debt during 2009 was recent improving trading conditions, linked to the renewal of the entirely accounted for by the tax paid following the successful disposal major banking facility, enabled a final dividend of 5.35p per share of the Testing division in 2008.
It is also reassuring to report that the to be recommended, giving a total of 8.3p for the year, unchanged Groups major borrowing facility has, in January 2010, been renewed from 2008.
Although the disappointing result in 2009 means that with existing banks through until March 2013.
This will ensure that the dividend will not be covered by earnings, the Board is confident Bodycote can complete its restructuring programme while providing that the actions taken to improve the operating performance, the fixed and working capital resources which will enable the Group underpinned by a strong year end balance sheet, should enable to fully benefit from the anticipated recovery in major markets over the Group to fully cover the payout in 2010.
The final dividend will the next three years.
be paid to shareholders in May following approval at the Annual General Meeting.
SUSTAINABILITY Despite the enormous efforts made during the year to reposition SUMMARY the Groups operations, management recognise that sustainability Over the last two years the Non-executive Directors have visited must be a key element of the business strategy to deliver future a large number of Group facilities and met with employees growth.
A responsible approach to the environment is important at all levels.
They have been impressed by the dedication and to ensure that Bodycote has a sustainable long-term future.
Already professionalism of the Groups staff and would like to thank them over 75% of the facilities have met the ISO 14001 standard which for their contribution in what has been an extremely turbulent helps minimise the risk of adverse environmental effects and the aim and challenging period.
The Board believes that Stephen and his is to achieve 100% accreditation in all plants during the coming years.
colleagues have taken the right decisions to ensure that Bodycote emerges from this unprecedented recession in a position to deliver Health and Safety statistics are closely monitored and are the subject enhanced value to shareholders.
of review at each Board and executive meeting.
As a business, Bodycote is committed to providing its employees with a safe working environment while supporting and enhancing their health and wellbeing.
A. M. Thomson Chairman 25 February 2010... the Board believes that Stephen and his colleagues have taken the right decisions to ensure that Bodycote emerges from this unprecedented recession in a position to deliver enhanced value to shareholders BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 9
