DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2009 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT is the key driver of the Companys Share price and, I am pleased to present accordingly, it believes that maintaining and enhancing the Shareholders with the Annual integrity of the portfolio should be the Companys principal focus.
Thus whilst the Companys Share buyback strategy Report and Accounts of Dexion prior to the mandatory redemption offers in 2009 was a Absolute Limited for the year ended necessary part of its efforts to control the Share price 31 December 2009. discount in each class, such a strategy required the realisation of investments from the portfolio which, if By the close of 2009, the condition of the global financial continued, could detract from the Companys performance system had improved dramatically from the start of the year.
over the medium term and could result in a reduced overlap Financial markets had shown surprising resilience to headline of underlying managers with Aurora L. P. Whilst the Board risks and ongoing uncertainty due, in no small part, to the intends to continue to follow an active Share buyback massive fiscal and monetary support from the worlds major strategy in the future, it intends to use the Companys Share economies.
Whilst conditions were significantly different to buyback powers principally in circumstances where the those experienced in 2008, a legacy of wide discounts Share price discount for one or more classes of Shares persisted across the listed hedge fund sector.
The Company becomes out of line with discounts then prevailing in the implemented various corporate actions during the year, Companys peer group within the London listed funds of including: a successful reverse auction redemption offer at hedge funds sector.
the beginning of 2009: the mandatory redemption offers during the middle of 2009 in respect of the, US$ and A$ During the year, the Company has responded to the growing Share classes resulting in the eventual delisting of the latter : demand from investors for more information and as well as a further subsequent smaller reverse auction transparency in the Companys reporting.
Accordingly, a new redemption offer for continuing Shares, all of which helped in monthly portfolio report was launched at the start of 2009, narrowing the discount significantly during the year for significantly increasing the amount of written commentary Shares from 31% as at 31 December 2008 to 9% as at and charted portfolio analysis.
This change has also filtered 31 December 2009.
However, despite these actions, further into the charts in this years annual report which also reflect continuation votes for each Share class were triggered in the more detailed level of analysis on the portfolio.
On an ad January 2010 and were all passed the following month.
hoc basis, other materials continue to be created to assist investors understanding of the various corporate actions During 2009, the net asset value NAV of the Companys undertaken, and accompanying circulars issued by the Shares rose by 23.95%.
The annualised NAV return on the Company.
During the year, for the first time there were two Shares from inception to 31 December 2009 has been Manager Forums in March and October at which the 6.67%, with annualised volatility of 7.63%.
The strong Investment Adviser and three representative hedge fund performance of the Company in 2009 reflects the managers spoke to investors about their investment styles Investment Advisers consistent adherence to its investment and their individual perspectives on the investment style and its ability to identify managers with sustainable opportunities they were seeing in markets at the time.
At the edge and experience to enable them to maximise the same time the regular programme of investor meetings and multiple investment opportunities presented by volatile audio web conference calls also continued.
In the three market conditions.
conference calls, the shift to a live question and answer format at the end of the presentation had provided investors The market price of the Companys Shares rose by 63% with the chance to ask the Investment Advisers portfolio over 2009 as positive net asset performance, together with management team direct questions.
redemptions and repurchases of Shares, significant improvements in stock market liquidity and improved In addition to the corporate actions mentioned above, and demand from investors has helped close the discount gap.
explained in more detail in the Significant Events section of The Board continues to believe that investment performance the Directors Report, the Board moved to ensure that the 3 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2009 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS highwater mark the level above which performance fees accrue was fairly set following the Companys high level of corporate activity during 2008 and 2009.
The Board confirms that NAV increases resulting from such activity does not result in the payment of performance fees.
The combination of corporate actions undertaken, strong NAV performance, stock market liquidity arising from the Companys scale and active Shareholder engagement has resulted in the Companys Shares of each class now trading at among the narrowest discounts to NAV in the Companys peer group within the London listed funds of hedge funds sector.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity again to thank my fellow Directors for their time and unstinting endeavours over past months as the Board has sought to be proactive in what it considers to be in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole.
I look forward to welcoming Shareholders to the 2010 Annual General Meeting of the Company at 9 am on 11 June 2010, which will be held at the Companys registered office at 1 Le Truchot, St Peter Port, Guernsey.
