We have therefore undertaken a detailed review of the Manager's investment philosophy and its approach to risk management.
The Board continues to believe that Aberdeen Asset Managers has the resources and skills to run DIGITs portfolio for the benefit of its shareholders and it is the task of this Board to ensure that the Managers investment process is applied in a manner which is appropriate for what is likely to remain a challenging environment for stockmarkets.
John Scott Chairman Dividend While there is considerable uncertainty about the outlook for dividends, last year witnessed robust underlying dividend No commentary on Britains financial performance in 2008 growth in our portfolio and this resulted in the revenue per can fail to mention the liquidity crisis, leading to the need for share rising from 10.58p to 11.72p.
This includes recognition extensive Government support for UK banks, and the of the benefit of an initial rebate of VAT previously charged subsequent credit contraction which has tipped economies on the Companys management fees explained further across the world into the worst recession for many years.
below, which equates to 0.2p per share.
On the other hand, Investors in equities world-wide have experienced a torrid the earnings figure has borne the impact of the change in time over the past 12 months and, once the weakness of allocation of interest and management fees charged to sterling is taken into account, the UK returned one of the capital and income also referred to below, as well as the worst performances of all major equity markets.
The effect of carrying a lower absolute level of debt.
We are deepening of the financial crisis following the collapse of recommending an unchanged final dividend of 6.50p per Lehman Brothers has seen unprecedented levels of volatility share, taking the full year dividend to 10.25p 2008 within stockmarkets and has resulted in a fall in the FTSE All- 10.00p.
It is proposed that the final dividend will be paid on Share Index - the benchmark against which we measure 22 May 2009 to shareholders on the register on 24 April ourselves - of 30.7% in capital terms.
Furthermore, I am sorry to find myself reporting on a second We have been able to accommodate this unchanged final year of underperformance by Dunedin Income Growth dividend at the same time as adding to an already strong Investment Trust DIGIT, which lagged significantly behind revenue reserve.
The Board recognises that the present levels its benchmark.
The move into recession has resulted in of income will not be sustained in the current year and is difficult trading conditions for many of the stocks in which prepared to use the revenue reserve to defend the present the Company invests and, in the past year, DIGITs net asset level of DIGITs dividend for the 2009 10 financial year.
It value NAV, measured with debt priced at market value, should be noted that our ability to pay dividends is affected fell by 37.6% in capital terms.
This is a disappointing result: by our policy of charging to capital 60% of the management in 2007 8, performance relative to the benchmark suffered fee and interest costs.
As highlighted at the interim stage, partly as a result of the Managers decision to restrict this was reduced from the previous policy of allocating 70% exposure to what they - correctly, as it turns out - perceived of these charges to capital.
as over-priced mining stocks and we had hoped that, in anticipating the end of the resource boom, DIGITs relative Gearing performance would benefit.
The Companys borrowings are provided by a combination of fixed rate debenture stock repayable in 2019 and a variable The primary driver of underperformance came from the rate bank loan facility.
The flexibility offered by the latter Companys borrowings, the majority of which is represented allows the Manager to adjust the level of borrowings as by our debenture stock.
At a portfolio level, the Companys market conditions change.
Since the end of January 2008, relative performance lagged the benchmark FTSE All-Share the amount drawn down under the variable rate facility has Index by 2.2% in total return terms: whatever the benefits of been reduced from 18 million to 12 million at the end of gearing in rising markets, it has an adverse effect on the financial year.
This, coupled with the 7 % debenture, shareholders equity when securities prices fall.
took gearing at 31 January 2009 to 12.8% with debt valued at par 15.3% with debt valued at market value.
Subsequent As set out in more detail in the Managers report which to the year end, the amount drawn down under the facility covers the performance of the underlying portfolio in more has been reduced further and stood at 2 million as at 31 detail, some of this years difficulties at a stock level derive March 2009. from the behaviour of the higher-yielding shares in which we tend to invest.
Your Board has expressed its concern to the While we continue to believe that some level of gearing will Manager regarding the recent results of the Company and, in enhance long-term returns to shareholders, we have agreed particular, has sought to understand why the Manager's with the Manager new guidelines to reflect current market investment screening process, which is focused on quality conditions and the reduction in the absolute amount drawn and value, has not provided better protection to the down from the revolving facility reflects the Boards concern Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 5 Chairmans Statement continued about the unprecedented level of volatility in equity markets.
1990 1996 and 2001 - 2003 and we should be able to Furthermore, the current bank facility expires at the end of recognise further sums as and when they are received.
We July 2009 and indications are that, should a renewal or would expect the total amount, covering both those earlier replacement be offered, it will be on terms significantly less periods, to be in excess of 1 million, plus interest, which will favourable than those enjoyed to date.
again be split in accordance with the prevailing accounting policy.
Nonetheless, the fide-gearing comes at a cost to the income account: we have been able to borrow at an interest rate of Outlook less than 1.5% including costs, while the historic yield on Global equity markets remain very volatile and investor our portfolio is in excess of 6%.
The near term economic newsflow continues to deteriorate, resulting in further pressure on Discount and Share Buybacks.
Although the policy response has The discount to NAV, with debt at market value, at which been both coordinated on an international level and our shares trade narrowed slightly during the period, from unprecedented in its speed and magnitude, it is not yet clear 5.8% to 5.2%.
This narrowing probably reflects the pursuit of that these measures will be sufficient.
It is difficult to expect income in the investment trust, and wider, market place.
any evidence of stability until the travails of the banking Subsequent to the year end this has tightened further to system are resolved and there is little sign of this at present 3.4%.
while additional capital introduced is being consumed by write downs and the requirement to improve ratios, rather We have continued to buy back shares in DIGIT when we than allowing a restoration of their lending activities.
There have been able to do so and on terms that provide a tangible will also come a point when markets focus on the longerbenefit to continuing shareholders and in order to provide term cost of the bail-outs and when the quantities of money some stability to the discount in otherwise volatile being printed may feed through into inflation.
During the year we acquired 1.0 million shares 2008 - 2.2 million in total.
These shares are initially held in The immediate concern is whether, or when, these initiatives treasury, which allows them to be re-issued at a future date, might start to have an effect.
Equity markets have fallen provided DIGITs share price is trading at a premium to NAV.
sharply and - even taking into account the prospect of As part of prudent housekeeping, and to prevent a significant further earnings downgrades - valuation multiples are not accumulation of shares held in treasury, the Board took the demanding.
DIGIT will continue its policy of investing decision to cancel two million of the treasury shares during primarily in well-financed companies listed on the London the year.
The remainder will be subject to review ahead of Stock Exchange, with a view to offering its shareholders the Annual General Meeting.
longer-term growth of capital and income.
At the time of writing, our shares offer a yield which represents a premium Marketing over what is available from sterling bank deposits which has We continue to attach great importance to ensuring that the not been seen in the UK in 50 years or more.
share price reflects the underlying value of the Company.
Alongside share buybacks, another of the levers available to Annual General Meeting the Board is the active marketing of the Company, in order The Companys Annual General Meeting takes place in to be able to attract new shareholders.
To this end, the Edinburgh, on 20 May 2009, and I look forward to seeing as Manager has a regular programme of visits to, and many of you there as possible.
communications with, financial advisors, investors and potential investors around the country, to ensure that the market understands and is aware of the attractions of the John Scott Company.
Chairman 31 March 2009 VAT on Management Fees As shareholders are aware from my previous statements, in 2007 HMRC conceded defeat over the charging of VAT on the management fees incurred by UK investment trusts.
Whilst progress on reclaiming all of these sums has been slower than I would have liked, these results recognise our confidence in an imminent recovery of an initial sum of 1,020,000.
This represents the VAT charged on our management fees between 2004 and 2007, which is then split in accordance with the Companys accounting policy at the time of paying the VAT, with 714,000 being credited to capital and 306,000 being credited to revenue: the latter represents the 0.2p per share referred to earlier.
The Manager continues to pursue, with HMRC, the repayment of the VAT incurred on management fees during the periods 6 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC
