Chairmans Statement Background During an uncertain twelve-month period to 31 August 2009, your Company performed well.
The net asset value at the financial year end was 179.3p, a rise of 11.1% on a total return basis, compared with a gain in the benchmark, the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index, of 9.0%.
The share price rose by 16.4% to 167.4p, reflecting a contraction in the discount from 10.5% to 6.6%.
Tony Cassidy Chairman The outperformance of the Company is pleasing in what were very difficult conditions, and follows the previous Highlights financial year when the net asset value held up relatively well Net Asset Value Total Return 11.1% compared to a as markets corrected.
benchmark return of 9.0% Share Price Total Return 16.4% It is unclear whether the recent strong rally can be sustained in the short term given the doubts over the ongoing tough economic conditions.
However, the long-term prospects for Asian economies are positive, unlike those of their Western counterparts, which are likely to continue to struggle for some time with debt constraints.
Overview Global markets were characterised by two distinct phases during the review period.
The first few months saw many investors gripped by panic, most notably when Lehman Brothers collapsed on 14 September 2008.
In the first few days of October 2008, fears of a meltdown of the global financial system caused the Dow Jones Industrial Average Index to plunge by nearly 30%, before authorities were able to step in with financial guarantees, enabling markets to stabilise.
That quarter also saw economic growth plunge around the world, as the banking crisis caused global trade to slow down.
By the end of 2008, the US and Europe, together with trade-dependent Asian economies, had slipped into recession.
The latter half of the period saw markets rebound almost as quickly as they had collapsed.
Thanks to unprecedented monetary and fiscal stimulus, it became apparent that an extended global depression would be avoided, for the time being at least.
Equity markets started to rise in March 2009, and momentum was maintained throughout the rest of the reporting period.
Economic data appeared to improve, but as a result of the immense stimulation effort and restocking, rather than a recovery of private demand.
A number of Asian economies posted quarter-on-quarter growth in the three months to June 2009, following previous contractions.
It is worth noting that the holdings that contributed most to Dragons outperformance were those able to benefit from growing domestic demand, such as Indias Hero Honda and Grasim Industries, Unilever Indonesia and Thailands Siam Cement.
These companies typify the long-term growth potential of Asia, serving markets with large populations and low consumer penetration rates.
They are also companies Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 5 Chairmans Statement continued with strong financial positions which have been able to a final dividend of 1.61p per ordinary share which, if strengthen their competitive positions during the downturn, approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, as rivals struggled.
It is also worth noting that many of the will be paid on 11 December 2009. top performers were in India.
Indeed, our overweight to India was a major contributor to relative return, and reflects your The Board Managers conviction that the country, despite having a Having been delighted to serve as a Director of Dragon since number of key macroeconomic challenges, is home to many its launch, I have now decided to step down from the Board well-run companies with a well-established culture.
after this years Annual General Meeting.
I am happy to report that Allan McKenzie, who has been a Director of the Conversely, Dragon remains underweight to China, where Company since 2006 and a member of the Audit Committee, markets, in addition to being subject to the forces driving all will become Chairman of the Company.
markets globally, were the beneficiaries of bank credit growth exceeding 30% in the first half of 2009.
That said, the Shareholders will also be interested to know that, in line with sharp fall in the Shanghai and Shenzhen markets in August Dragon's strong commitment to its corporate governance 2009 supported the view that excess liquidity had created a responsibilities, the Board regularly reviews its performance bubble and a correction was to be expected.
and structure to ensure it has the correct mix of relevant Notwithstanding the current speculative nature of this skills and experience for the good conduct of the Company's market, your Manager remains very cautious about Chinese business.
As part of this process the Board has now agreed a companies generally.
programme of refreshment, which will see its membership change as current Directors retire in an orderly manner, and The past years events, though concerning, have seen Asia new directors are recruited.
rise in stature, in contrast to its somewhat blemished reputation following the 1997 financial crisis.
On this Continuation Vote occasion, Asian banks had minimal exposure to toxic assets Edinburgh Dragon Trust is the largest investment trust in the West and debt levels remain generally low at a specialising in the Asian ex Japan sector.
The Dragon Board government, corporate and personal level.
Also, while the believes that the Trust offers investors a broad and performance of Asian markets in 2008 suggested that the marketable exposure to Asian equity markets, many of which region was still heavily dependent on the West, in 2009 it continue to provide attractive long-term investment appears that the dependency flow is starting to reverse.
As shareholders will be aware, they are given the opportunity to vote on the continuation Discount of the Company every three years.
The Directors believe The Board monitors closely the discount level of the that the prospects for Asian markets remain positive, and Companys shares and has in place a buyback mechanism your Company is managed by one of the leading Asian fund whereby the Manager is authorised to buy back shares within managers.
Your Board thus strongly recommends that certain limits.
During the financial year to 31 August 2009 shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
there were no buybacks of the Companys shares.
However, the Board believes the authority to buy back shares for The Board has an ongoing programme of contact with cancellation should remain in place.
From recent contact, it has become clear that the authority to buy back shares for cancellation will be one of the Companys larger shareholders wished the Board proposed at this year's Annual General Meeting as an to present a tender offer in conjunction with this years ordinary resolution.
The Board is proposing the resolution in Annual General Meeting at which the three yearly this way to ensure that the Company has the ability to use continuation vote will be considered.
share buy backs to manage its discount during the coming 12 months.
The Board and the Companys advisers have consulted a number of the other larger shareholders of Dragon and, as a Gearing result, the Board will propose a tender offer for up to 15 per The Company repaid the $80 million Loan Notes on 30 cent.
of the Companys issued shares at a discount of 3 per December 2008, the final repayment date.
to formula asset value being net asset value less the continued to have a gearing facility in place via a 40 million costs of the tender offer on the calculation date, which will multi-currency loan facility with the Royal Bank of Scotland.
be at the end of the tender offer process.
To date the Company has not drawn on this facility.
The record date for the tender offer will be the close of Revenue Account business on 10 November 2009.
The tender offer is expected The revenue return per share was 2.31p, compared to 2.35p to be conducted, following the necessary shareholder in the previous year.
The Board recommends the payment of 6 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc approval, in early 2010.
A document setting out the terms of Outlook the tender offer will be sent to shareholders shortly.
Tentative signs have emerged that the worst of the recession may be over, but a clear view of a strong, sustainable In these circumstances, the Board believes that this proposal recovery remains elusive, even in Asia.
There may be as yet is in the interests of shareholders.
It ensures that unseen consequences of the extraordinary stimulatory shareholders who do not tender any shares are protected measures taken to prop up economies and financial systems.
against the costs of the tender offer and receive benefit from While in the near term deflation remains a major threat, a modest uplift in their net asset value.
It also provides an inflation and its damaging side-effects may return at some exit mechanism for the shareholders who have asked for one.
Economies may experience a double-dip recession as governments are forced to withdraw stimulus spending, Annual General Meeting perhaps late next year, leaving what may be a still weak In accordance with the corporate governance procedures private sector to drive growth.
endorsed by the Board, all Directors who have attained more than nine years service or are aged over 70 years will retire Asia is better prepared to face this uncertainty than the from the Board and submit themselves for re-election on an West.
However, what is required is more effort to create a annual basis.
Messrs Frame, Gairns, Tyrie and Watt will retire concerted shift from export reliance to domestic and be proposed for re-election at the Annual General consumption a more sustainable growth model for the Meeting.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of region in the long term.
Stockmarkets, meanwhile, may stay Association, Mr McKenzie will retire from the Board and will volatile, and fears of destabilising asset bubbles remain amid offer himself for re-election of the Annual General Meeting.
The Board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the re-election of these Directors at the Annual General In this environment, well-run Asian companies with strong Meeting.
financial positions have the opportunity to grow and expand their market reach, at the expense of competitors.
Dragon The Directors are proposing at this years Annual General will continue to invest in and search out such companies, Meeting to make amendments to the Companys Articles of expected to be stronger performers in the long run.
Association to take account of changes to company law, principally, as a result of the implementation of the Companies Act 2006 and the EU Shareholders Rights Directive.
The proposed changes are detailed in the For Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Appendix to the Notice of Meeting.
Tony Cassidy Chairman 5 November 2009 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 7
