06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Introduction: The UK Equity Market As I described in my Interim Statement, the Company appointed a new manager, Invesco Asset Management Limited lnvesco, on 15 September 2008, where Mr Neil Woodford has assumed responsibility for the investment portfolio.
Mr Woodford is a long term investor prepared to take substantial positions in companies which he believes, in the light of expected economic conditions, have the potential to generate above average growth in earnings and dividends.
This investment approach will often lead to concentrated portfolios which may diverge, sometimes for quite long periods, from movements in the Companys benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index.
The year to 31 March 2009 was one of particular difficulty for equity markets including that of the UK.
Despite deteriorating conditions for global banking and credit markets generally, equity markets were initially resilient in the early months of the Companys financial year.
After some weakness in May, the benchmark FTSE All-Share Index The Index fell sharply in September and at the interim stage was 15.1% lower than on 1 April 2008.
The market weakness continued in October and despite brief rallies through the following three months, reached a low point early in March when the Index was virtually 40% lower than the level at the start of the Companys year.
Thereafter, the downward trend reversed and the fall since 1 April in the Index was reduced at 31 March 2009 to 32.2%.
Investment Performance This account of the Companys performance for the year to 31 March 2009 reflects the contribution of the previous Manager, Fidelity International Limited Fidelity for the period to 15 September 2008 and of Invesco for the remainder of the period.
The company has two long-term investment objectives: to increase net assets per share NAV by more than the growth in the Index: to achieve growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK inflation.
Capital: The table on page 2 in the annual financial report shows that NAV with debt at par at 31 March 2009 is 31.1% lower than at the start of the year.
This is a marginally better out-turn than that of the Index, which fell by 32.2% in the same period.
Invesco, the new Manager, produced a significantly better relative performance than Fidelity.
From the start of the financial year to the handover on 15 September NAV debt at par and adjusted for dividend accruals fell by 7.6%, compared to an Index reduction over the same period of 5.8%.
From 15 September to the financial year end, under Invesco management, NAV fell by 26.3%: this was less than the Index reduction of 28.0%.
This is illustrated in the table on page 19 and leads to Invescos entitlement to a performance fee, details of which are explained later in these accounts.
NAV with debt at market value has fallen in the financial year by more than the Index: this is due to the increased price of the Companys debentures, and conversely reduced NAV.
Share Price: The Companys share price fell over the year by 27.5%.
Although of little comfort to the Board or shareholders, this fall was less than that of the Index and in part reflected investor demand for companies with above average yield in an environment of falling interest rates.
The discount of the share price to NAV debt at par was reduced from 15.1% to 10.5%.
Measuring debt at market value, the share price stood on 31 March 2009 at a discount of 0.4% to NAV, compared to 10.1% on 1 April 2008.
Income: The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.15p which, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 24 July 2009 to those on the Companys register on 19 June 2009 ex dividend date 17 June 2009.
This compares to 5.65p paid in July 2008.
This dividend proposal brings the total payment in respect of the year to March 2009 to 20.4p, 2.5% more than the 19.9p paid in the year to March 2008.
The Retail Price Index has in this period fallen by 0.4%, hence the Companys objective of growing income above the rate of inflation is achieved.
I have explained in my statements in the last two years Annual Reports that the Board expected the Companys dividends to grow at a much slower rate in future than they had since the move in 2005 to a higher income portfolio.
Nevertheless, the Board recognises that growth, or at least maintenance of current dividend levels is important to shareholders.
Accordingly, the Manager has adopted an investment strategy which seeks to identify companies he believes can sustain or increase distributions in an environment where dividends generally are under pressure.
The Board has in the past shown that it is prepared to use THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 reserves to maintain dividends, provided it sees scope for eventual recovery and shareholders will be aware that the Company has dividend reserves, high relative to its peer group of Investment Trusts, which after payment of the proposed final dividend represent 96% of the current annual dividend.
Whilst the Board and the Manager accept that income forecasts are subject to a high degree of uncertainty at this stage in the market cycle, they believe the Company, for the reasons given, is in a good position to meet shareholder expectations in this respect.
Portfolio Structure The Investment Managers Report describes the rationale for the Companys investment portfolio.
Essentially, the Manager has adopted a defensive posture by investing in businesses which he believes will be resilient to the weakening global economy.
This strategy, strongly endorsed by the Board, is designed to secure to the greatest extent possible both future dividend stream and capital performance.
In the market recovery which has occurred since the 31 March 2009 year end, defensively oriented companies have risen by less than the market as a whole and the Companys portfolio has underperformed.
The Manager believes that this rally in more volatile securities is premature and can demonstrate that the price earnings ratio of the key constituents of the Companys own portfolio is currently well below that of the FTSE 100 Index, suggesting that considerable scope remains for relative appreciation.
The Manager has full responsibility for gearing decisions and has used the Companys borrowings to virtually their full extent since handover on 15 September.
The Board has reviewed the position of the Companys debenture stocks and continues to believe that it is in shareholders interests that they should be retained.
VAT I reported in my interim statement that the Company was in discussion with Fidelity over recovery of VAT paid since 2002 and with Aberdeen Asset Management in respect of prior periods.
I am pleased to report that agreement has been reached with Fidelity and that 1.97 million plus interest was paid to the Company during the six months under review.
This was allocated to income and capital in the same proportions as originally charged see note 3, page 44 in the annual financial report.
Aberdeen Asset Managers have now started the discussions with HM Revenue & Customs which will precede our own settlement with them: it is too early to forecast the outcome and no provision has been made in these Accounts.
Annual General Meeting The Company this year celebrates the 120th anniversary of its founding and the Board and the Manager look forward to meeting shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in Edinburgh on 17 July.
I would like to draw attention to two particular matters on the Agenda for this meeting.
Buy Back Share Issuance: The Company will, as it has for many years, seek permission from shareholders to buy back shares in appropriate circumstances to enhance the NAV for the remaining shareholders.
During the year under review, 3.178 million shares were bought back, enhancing NAV for remaining shareholders by about 0.15p.
I mentioned earlier in this statement that the discount to NAV of the Companys shares had fallen during the year, and that at the year end the share price was at a very small discount to NAV debt at market.
As and when shares do trade at a premium, it can be advantageous to issue new shares and shareholders will be asked to grant permission for the Company to do so.
Investment in Overseas Registered Securities: The Companys current investment policy objective states that it will invest in UK securities.
The bulk of UK listed companies in which we now invest operate internationally in global markets.
In searching for investment opportunities, the Manager from time to time identifies companies quoted in an overseas market but exhibiting the same investment characteristics as others quoted in the UK: the major oil companies are a good example.
The Board and Manager believe that where the overseas quoted entity is a more attractive alternative than the domestic one, then it is to the Companys advantage to invest accordingly.
Shareholders will be asked to grant permission to invest up to 15% of the assets of the Company in overseas quoted companies.
The investment benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index, will remain unchanged.
08 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Outlook The worlds markets have fallen heavily in the past year in reaction to the credit crunch and the resulting impact on world economies.
The UK equity market has not escaped the general trend and fell by almost one-third in the Companys financial year ending 31 March 2009.
Although at time of writing the market has made some recovery and there is talk of sighting of green shoots, the shortterm outlook for the UK market remains highly uncertain and in the broader economy there is clear concern that both interest rates and inflation will face upward pressure.
Against this background the Manager has constructed a portfolio of companies which he believes are strongly placed to continue to generate satisfactory profits and dividends in an expected weak economy.
Whilst income generation is the immediate priority, he does not believe this need be at the expense of capital growth as the market recovers.
In summary, the Company offers a defensive portfolio, yielding substantially more than Government bonds with good prospects of capital growth when market confidence returns.
