Business Review Chairmans Statement I am delighted to report such excellent results for the Group.
In my As ever, a key decision for us is how to reward both to retain and report last year I said we believed the challenging market and economic motivate the key people for the future success of the Group.
Accordingly, conditions experienced in 2008 would continue throughout 2009. the Group has put in place new long term partnership equity plans, To a large extent, 2009 unfolded in line with this premise.
Financial both for the Group Executives and senior employees within our operating markets stabilised after worldwide Government backed rescues of divisions.
These plans were designed after extensive consultation with troubled banks combined with unprecedented injections of liquidity our major shareholders and were approved at an EGM on 22 January into financial markets by several Central Banks through the policy 2010.
During the year we have continued to recruit very high calibre of quantitative easing.
people and will continue to do so.
Our staff have managed our business in a very impressive way and once again I thank them all for their Risk appetite, almost non-existent at the end of 2008 and early in professionalism and their commitment.
2009, has somewhat returned as a result, although it has remained volatile throughout 2009 and indeed into the early months of this Outlook year, as investor sentiment remains highly sensitive to further In summary, I believe the Group remains better placed than ever to face shocks, such as Sovereign default risk.
the challenges ahead and deliver continued growth to our shareholders.
Against this backdrop the Group has begun to deliver impressive growth in income and profitability.
I said last year that our strategy Martin Gray would enable us to take advantage of opportunities as they arose, Chairman to continue to recruit quality people and to invest in new income 25 March 2010 streams.
The Group has been able to progress this strategy in 2009 and completed two significant investments in the development of the fixed income agency business and the large-cap equity business.
Both these investments add significant potential for the Group to grow further in the future.
As I write, financial and economic conditions remain challenging with the additional uncertainty presented by the political agendas surrounding the elections in both the UK and the US in 2010.
We do, however, see some signs that risk appetite is continuing to improve gradually.
We are hopeful that politicians and policy makers in general can maintain and encourage a stable and consistent macro environment, specifically with regard to inflation, interest rates, taxation and regulation, conducive to continued growth in activity across all areas of the economy.
Board Changes I am pleased to announce that we have made further progress in strengthening the Groups Board.
Andrew Westenberger was appointed as Group Finance Director on 8 April 2009: Chris Chambers joined as a Non-Executive Director on 3 November 2009 and Roger Perkin joined as a Non-Executive Director on 27 January 2010.
All three have made valuable contributions to the management of the Group.
Roger Perkin replaced Nick Irens who resigned on 31 December 2009 as Chairman of the Audit committee.
Andrew Umbers also resigned from the Board on 3 February 2010.
We wish them both well and thank them for their significant contributions to the success of the Group over the past few years.
As well as these Group Board changes, a new Chief Executive Officer for Williams fide Bro Limited, Philip Howell, joined the Group in March 2010.
6 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
