F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 02 Business Review Welcome from the Chairman Bu Busi sin ness ess Rev Reviiew ew Go Gov ver ern nan ance ce F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s S Sh har areh eho ollder der IIn nfo for rmat matiio on n Welcome from the Chairman Nick MacAndrew Chairman... We are looking forward to building on our new independent status... 2009 was another turbulent year for the asset management on 7 May 2010 to shareholders on the register at 26 March industry and, for the Group, one of considerable change.
This brings full-year dividends to 6.0 pence per began with a further severe downturn in global equity and share.
bond markets, exacerbating the difficulties of 2008.
However, from March onwards both equities and bonds Ownership staged a strong rally through to the end of the year.
After a prolonged period of corporate uncertainty, F&C was Despite this welcome recovery, average equity market demerged from the Friends Provident group on 3 July levels in 2009 were still lower than the previous year.
This transaction, which involved Friends Provident resulted in a tough operating environment for asset distributing its controlling 52 per cent.
stake in F&C to its managers.
own shareholders, has resulted in an enormous broadening of our shareholder register.
Results and Dividend The Groups underlying profit after tax excluding foreign Board Developments exchange gains and losses was 28.3 million compared to There were a number of changes to the Board during the 37.3 million in 2008.
This represented underlying year, both ahead of the Groups demerger from Friends earnings per share of 5.8 pence for 2009 compared to 7.6 Provident and upon its completion.
pence in the previous year.
Including the impact of foreign exchange gains and losses, underlying earnings per share At the Annual General Meeting in May, Robert Jenkins were 4.6p for 2009 and 7.8p for 2008. retired as Chairman of the Company and stepped down from the Board.
I would like to pay tribute to Bobs many On a statutory reported basis, which includes exceptional years of service to F&C, as Chief Executive of F&C Group and non-cash items, we made a profit after tax of 18.7 prior to its merger with ISIS Asset Management in 2004 million, compared to a loss after tax of 50.6 million in and subsequently as the first Chairman of F&C Asset 2008.
This represents a basic earnings per share of 3.2 Management plc.
At the same meeting Dick fide Beus also pence compared to a loss of 10.7 pence in the previous retired as an independent Non-Executive Director.
tenure on the Board pre-dated the 2004 merger and his experience and insights were greatly valued.
On behalf of After considering the results for the year, the challenging the Board, I wish Bob and Dick well and extend thanks to market conditions and the exceptional corporate them both.
uncertainty which impacted them, as well as the improving outlook for the business, the Board is recommending an In June we welcomed two new Independent Nonunchanged final dividend of 4.0 pence per share, payable Executive Directors.
Kieran Poynter joined the Board and F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 03 Business Review Welcome from the Chairman Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, having Conclusion recently retired as Chairman and Senior Partner of We are looking forward to building on our new independent  LLP.
The Board was also joined status and, while we recognise that there are, as ever, in June by Roger Yates, former Chief Executive of many internal and external challenges, we are optimistic Henderson Group.
Regrettably, Roger stepped down in that F&C will meet those challenges in the pursuit of December 2009 following his appointment as Chief enhancing shareholder value.
Executive of another asset management organisation.
We are currently seeking a replacement.
Following the demerger of F&C from the Friends Provident group, both Sir Adrian Montague, former Chairman of Nick MacAndrew Friends Provident, and Trevor Matthews, Chief Executive Chairman Officer of Friends Provident, stepped down as Non- 31 March 2010 Executive Directors.
I would like to thank both Sir Adrian and Trevor for their service.
Friends Provident continues to be an important client of the Group.
F& F&C C A As ss set et Manag Management ement A An nn nu ual al Repo Repor rt t an and d F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s 2 20 00 09 9 4 04BB us us ines ines s sOR ver evi vi ew ew Ou Wr el v co alu me es:fr to hm e fo thu e nC dat hai iorn man s of excellence Bu Busi sin ness ess Rev Reviiew ew Go Gov ver ern nan ance ce F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s S Sh har areh eho ollder der IIn nfo for rmat matiio on n Accountable performance Our values: the foundations of excellence F& F&C C A As ss set et Manag Management ement A An nn nu ual al Repo Repor rt t an and d F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s 2 20 00 09 9 5 05BB us us ines ines s sOR ver evi vi ew ew Ou Wr el v co alu me es:fr to hm e fo thu e nC dat hai iorn man s of excellence Bu Busi sin ness ess Rev Reviiew ew Go Gov ver ern nan ance ce F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s S Sh har areh eho ollder der IIn nfo for rmat matiio on n We expect individuals to take responsibility and deliver solutions.
Every employee knows the role they play, and the measures that will be used to judge their performance.
