Chairmans Statement You have a strong united Board and I wish Humphrey van der Klugt as Chairman, the Board and all shareholders every success in the future.
Robert Walther Chairman I have pleasure in presenting the annual report of Nevertheless, absolute returns were helped by the Fidelity European Values PLC for the year ended euros appreciation against sterling.
Throughout the 31 December 2009. trusts existence it has been our strategy never to hedge any of the trusts currency exposure.
This remains the PERFORMANCE Boards policy and the Board would inform shareholders At the start of 2009, markets were still very weak before any change was made.
following the bankruptcy of Lehmans.
Bank shares were particularly weak and there was some uncertainty Another factor in 2009 was our approach to gearing.
whether government action worldwide would be While the Board was right to remove all gearing on a net sufficient to improve sentiment and permit banks and basis back in September 2007, it would with the benefit money markets to operate in a more normal fashion.
of hindsight have been more profitable to have In the event, good US bank results were announced in reinstated the gearing last March.
March and, with equity being oversold, markets began a rally which continued almost to year end.
DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT The Board remains active in issuing shares at a premium Against this background, the net asset value per share and buying back shares at a discount: a continuation of Fidelity European Values PLC increased by 11.3% on of practice since launch.
The purpose of this is to a total return basis.
This was less than its benchmark, the reduce share price volatility and it also results in an FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which rose by 19.1%.
enhancement to the net asset value per share.
Over The share price rose by 21.3% on a total return basis the last year, share buybacks have been made, further resulting in a narrowing of the discount.
The major details of which may be found in the Directors Report factor behind this weak relative performance was the on page 20. portfolios commitment to stocks with strong balance sheets and resilient profits.
The best performing stocks were, however, more volatile companies with rather weaker fundamentals.
Performance over one year, five years and since launch to 31 December 2009 on a total return basis NAV Share price FTSE World Europe ex UK Index One year 11.3% 21.3% 19.1% Five years 64.9% 59.8% 52.4% Since launch 1991 1,344.8% 1,211.0% 446.9% Source: Fidelity, Datastream and Morningstar as at 31 December 2009 Basis: bid-bid with net income reinvested Past performance is not a guide to future returns Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 3 Chairmans Statement Mr Fraser is subject to annual re-election under the DIVIDENDS Listing Rules due to his recent employment relationship As I do every year, I wish to reiterate that the Board with the Manager and his directorship of another will not influence the Manager in any way to determine investment trust managed by Fidelity, namely Fidelity the level of income of your Companys portfolio: it will Japanese Values PLC.
The Board is convinced that remain the Boards policy to pay out earnings in full.
Mr Frasers experience serves the Company well, and the Directors voted unanimously that he should remain This year the Board decided to pay an interim rather a Director when he left the employment of Fidelity.
This involved our estimating the level of earnings for the year.
In the event our actual As detailed in the biographies on pages 14 and 15 the earnings were slightly less than this figure as a result Directors have a wide range of appropriate skills and of which we have had to make a small transfer from experience to make up a balanced Board for your reserves.
The interim dividend of 22.50 pence per share Company.
With the exception of Mr Fraser, all other for the year ended 31 December 2009 compares with Directors are totally independent.
The Board has the previous years final dividend of 23.26 pence per considered the proposal for the election and re-election share and special dividend of 13.24 pence per share.
of the Directors and recommends to shareholders that This dividend will be paid on 31 March 2010 to they vote in favour of the proposals.
shareholders on the register at close of business on 5 March 2010 ex dividend date 3 March 2010.
CONTINUATION VOTE In accordance with the Articles of Association of the DIRECTORATE Company, an ordinary resolution that the Company As detailed in my statement in last years report, continue as an investment trust for a further two years Mr Simpson retired from the Board after the Annual was passed at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
A General Meeting and Mr van der Klugt assumed the further continuation vote will take place at the 2011 role of Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING I will retire as Director and Chairman after the 2010 The Annual General Meeting of the Company is due Annual General Meeting.
Mr van der Klugt will be to take place on 18 May 2010 at midday at Fidelitys appointed Chairman with effect from that date and offices at 25 Cannon Street.
Full details of the meeting Mr Robinson will be appointed Chairman of the Audit are given on pages 53 to 57 and I look forward to Committee and Senior Independent Director.
Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association to finalise the implementation I am delighted to confirm that Dr Niblett was appointed of the Companies Act 2006 requirements are the a Director on 14 January 2010 following a search using subject of a special resolution.
Dr Niblett is Director and Chief Executive of Chatham House the Royal Institute of International Affairs.
Prior to this he worked for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, becoming Executive Vice President in 2001.
Dr Niblett has already contributed greatly during his short tenure and he will be standing for election at the Annual General Meeting.
Page 4 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Chairmans Statement CONCLUSION I have been a Director of Fidelity European Values PLC since its inception in 1991: clearly I am proud to have been involved with a trust whose net asset value since launch has increased by 1,344.8% when the corresponding Index has increased by 446.9%.
I believe passionately that investment decisions and fund managers should be judged on their long term performance.
While I am sorry that a cautious approach by the Manager, supported by the Board, led to a year of relative underperformance, I believe that this approach and our concentration on stocks with stronger balance sheets will bear fruit and will in turn contribute to further outstanding longer term performance.
Fidelity European Values PLC has only had three fund managers since it started Anthony Bolton, Tim McCarron and Sudipto Banerji.
While each has had a slightly different approach to investment, they were united in their belief in the value of detailed high quality research and regular and frequent meetings with company management.
I am sure that this is the underlying reason for the trusts excellent long term record and I would be the first to pay tribute to each of our fund managers.
Provided Fidelity remains committed to this discipline and I am sure that it will, then I remain absolutely confident that your Company will show the same sort of performance over the next twenty years that it has shown to date.
You have a strong united Board and I wish Humphrey van der Klugt as Chairman, the Board and all shareholders every success in the future.
Robert Walther Chairman 5 March 2010 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 5
