Chairmans Statement best and should be capable of producing the excellent CHANGED TIMES: FIFTEEN YEARS returns we aim to earn because: SINCE LAUNCH On 17 November 1994 Fidelity Special Values was the vast majority of our shareholders have invested in launched in a time of somewhat turbulent stock the shares of Fidelity Special Values in part because markets so that investment trust investors would have of its exposure to the UK stock market: a vehicle which would invest alongside Fidelity Special the UK stock market itself is dominated by companies Situations, a unit trust as it was then managed by whose sales and profits are earned largely overseas: Anthony Bolton already a rising star in the world of we have considerable confidence that, in Sanjeev portfolio management.
The price at the time of the Shah, we have a talented portfolio manager, capable launch was 1 per share but the new shareholders also of earning good returns from stocks and shares received a warrant to acquire another share for every quoted on the London Stock Exchange: furthermore five they bought at the same price.
By the time that his style of investment is suited to investment in Anthony bowed out as the portfolio manager on 31 derivatives see below : December 2007 100 invested had become worth 3and finally we believe that Fidelitys skills in the area 549 a return of circa 13 4% per annum over those of derivatives gives us the chance to put that icing on 13 plus years.
I am happy to report that further progress the cake which will allow us to reproduce those has been made since then with Sanjeev Shah taking on excellent returns that we have earned in the past.
Anthonys portfolio management role, much like the proverbial duck to water.
And so it is that our investment policy remains that of investment in mispriced conventional stocks and shares Back in 1994 the worlds economy was emerging from the main body of the portfolio with two additional but a financial crisis not unlike todays but of much less much smaller components investment outside the UK severity : it was enjoying the economic benefits of where there may be more attractive investments within Thatcherism and Reaganism, including good growth, a particular mispriced sector for instance our holding low inflation and sound national finances, the baby in Carnival, the American cruise liner company and boomers consumer spending and of the emergence of investment in derivatives, both of which form a much global capitalism following the fall of the Berlin Wall.
smaller commitment, and help to put the icing on the The stock market barometer was set very fair and cake to which I referred earlier.
indeed it turned out that its reading was entirely accurate.
Between our launch and the end of 1999 the INVESTING IN DERIVATIVES FTSE All-Share Index rose by 109% to 3,242.
It seems Although we have written at length in the past about however to be human nature that people get carried investment in mispriced stocks and shares both here in away in good times: fuelled with easy money, excessive the UK and, to a much smaller extent, outside the UK, debt creation, insatiable greed and incompetent we have not articulated our approach to investing in government, it all turned into an out-of-control boom derivatives before: so I thought it worthwhile to say followed by the inevitable bust: the financial crisis, with something about it.
It is important to understand that which we are now all too familiar, erupted.
it is but a small component of the portfolio and, more importantly, it is just another way of investing in THE INVESTMENT POLICY mispriced stocks.
The point of reminding ourselves of the economic and financial course of events above is that, between the The investment style that Sanjeev uses in order to achieve launch of the Company and now, things have changed the appreciation of capital that is our corporate objective enormously: no longer can it be said that the stock in other words positive returns is the identification of market barometer is set fair certainly not for Great mispriced stocks.
He has identified those areas in which Britain at least.
Your Board of Directors, as is the duty he looks for such opportunities undervalued corporate of an investment trust board, has undertaken a thorough assets, for instance at the same time as identifying a review of the investment policy to consider whether, in catalyst which might correct the mispricing.
It is a style the light of different circumstances, it should be changed involving shorter term return objectives, the share price in order to give us a better chance of earning really good appreciation coming from a revaluation of the shares returns if possible to match those that have been within a relatively short period of time typically a year or earned in the past fifteen years.
We know that it is a big so: the turnover of the portfolio during the past year, for ask to use a modern idiom but it has always been instance, was 98%.
The point of highlighting his approach our goal to strive for excellence, most particularly in the to investing is that it is one that is very compatible with returns that we earn for our shareholders.
that of making successful investments in derivatives, themselves investments of a shorter term nature.
At both our annual away day and at another specially Investors with much longer time scales often find making convened meeting, working with Cenkos our investment successful shorter term derivative investments difficult.
banker and with Fidelity, the Board of Directors To repeat what I said earlier, it is our view that Sanjeev, considered different possible future investment policies.
with his investment style, is well suited to make derivative After much thought, discussion and debate we investments and thereby carry out the investment policy.
concluded that the option which suit shareholders the Page 4 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Chairmans Statement It is important to understand why the Board believes Fidelity Special Values PLC Quarterly NAV Changes 2008 09 that investment in derivatives makes sense for Fidelity Special Values.
Such investments give us the chance to 40 add value to our investment returns without changing the investment policy.
They allow us: 30 to gear the returns that we make, being an alternative 20 to straight borrowing: to take advantage of the revaluation of mispriced 10 stocks both up and down: 0to protect the portfolio if we become concerned about stock market levels generally.
-10 Gearing, investment in mispriced stocks and protecting -20 the portfolio are all things we do in the normal course of -30 managing the portfolio, have done in the past and will 30 28 31 31 continue to do so in the future.
It should be emphasised Full Nov Feb May Aug Year that investment is not made in any derivatives other than 08 09 09 09 those that are relevant to and directly enhance the NAV Share Price FTSE All-Share Index Companys investment policy.
Investment in derivatives is not new to the portfolio but we have been increasing our commitment in recent years, most noticeably in the last two years.
We have strict guidelines on what can be invested in and how 1 value 4 2% ahead of where it was a year ago.
Given that much just as we do for investment in conventional interest on a bank account earned most depositors next stocks and shares.
Finally I am happy to report that these to nothing, the rise in the net asset value is certainly investments have been adding value to the returns we worthwhile: given that our benchmark declined by circa make for shareholders having added circa 11 million 1 12% it can be said that Sanjeev Shah did a fabulous job to the net asset value over the last year and circa 8 2 of managing the portfolio in very difficult circumstances million in the previous financial year very worthwhile and in his first full year at the portfolio management returns we believe.
THE YEARS RESULTS: Better still news is that the share price staged an even NAV: 587.5P 4.5%: better recovery.
At the end of last year it stood at SHARE PRICE: 550.0P 14.2%: 1 1 481 2p, selling at a discount of circa 14 4% to the BENCHMARK: -12.1%: underlying net asset value.
As the year wore on, as the DIVIDEND: 9.0P markets began to recover their poise and importantly as Sanjeev became better known to both shareholders and This past year has proved to be quite extraordinary.
to investors generally, the market began to recognise the It started off with arguably the worst financial crisis excellence of the returns being earned: investors started in 80 years.
Stock markets crashed as sectors all to buy, many thereby becoming new shareholders and over the world had to be rescued by their respective the discount started to narrow.
By the end of the year governments: during the first half of our financial year the share price had risen to 550p and the discount had the British stock market lost approximately one third 1 narrowed to circa 6 2%.
These results are of the sort that of its value, as indeed did Fidelity Special Values net earn the attribute of excellent, being what we aim to assets.
However governments and central bankers earn for shareholders.
worked overtime on plans to rescue their banks and thence their economies by in effect getting their tax It is worth observing that the discount narrowed during payers to underwrite the creditworthiness of the banks the year despite the fact that we bought back very few and by pumping squillions of dollars, pounds, euros, shares and indeed we were able to issue some shares at yen etc into the global financial system.
For now at least a premium to the underlying net asset value for a net economies have been stabilised and global stock addition to the number of shares of circa 150,000.
The markets have rebounded in huge relief that the worst fact is that all the buying back of shares will not protect is over, for the moment at least.
The British stock market the discount of poorly performing investment trusts, rose by circa 30% over the course of our second half.
whereas buybacks are not normally necessary if the The chart above illustrates the tale of two halves.
returns being earned are good.
While we will buy back shares if there is advantage to long term shareholders to The real story for shareholders is that our own net asset do so the increase in the net asset value it should not value recovered quite magnificently rising by no less 1 be necessary to do so if we are doing a good job.
than 56 % in the six month period, leaving the net asset 2 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 5 Chairmans Statement The tables on page 17 illustrate where the years Year Share Price Dividend Total returns came from.
Most particularly they illustrate Gain Loss Return the tremendous contribution made by Sanjeevs stock 2008 -18.7% 2.9% -15.8% picking.
Rather strangely two of the three best returns came from holdings in bank shares the Royal Bank of 2009 14.2% 1.9% 16.1% 1 1 Scotland 8 2p and Standard Chartered 5 2p and NB.
Simple return dividends not reinvested likewise two of the worst returns HBOS -19p and Barclays -6p.
Statistics elsewhere refer to the total return, which DIVIDEND assume that shareholders reinvest their dividends back The level of income earned during the year fell from into the Companys shares at the time that they are 13.8 million to 10.4 million.
This was because the received.
Some shareholders do, others do not.
portfolio did not generate as much income in part because it was a different portfolio, in part as we did THE LONG TERM RETURNS OVER FIVE YEARS : not receive a VAT repayment this year and in part NAV: 71.8% because stocks suffered from dividend cuts.
As I have SHARE PRICE: 58.0% mentioned many times in the past, the objective of BENCHMARK: 13.8% Fidelity Special Values is to generate positive returns for shareholders, so that the income generated will be I have tried to emphasise in my statement each year that a function of the portfolio and its yield during the Fidelity Special Values is in business to make money for course of the year.
Nevertheless enough was earned to shareholders over the longer term.
That means making be able to recommend a dividend of 9p per share to positive returns money that can be spent.
But because shareholders, in itself the second highest ever paid.
the nature of stock markets is volatile and because the reinvestment of corporate profits takes time to bear fruit, While I have used statistics which refer to the change I have stressed that we regard long term as being at in the net asset value only, the dividend paid to least five years.
So I thought I would look at the five year shareholders makes a contribution to the overall returns record that the Company has produced since its that shareholders receive.
Over the longer term it inception both the net asset value and the share price probably wont be that significant when compared with plus the dividends received.
The chart on the left that of the capital return but in any given year it can illustrates that record and I think it is fair to say that make a meaningful difference.
It certainly did last year given that in most cases the five year returns are over when we paid a dividend of 17p per share while losing 10% per annum above the horizontal bold line for most money on our capital account.
This year the 9p dividend of the Companys life the long term objectives have 1 is in addition to an increase in the share price of 68 2p been achieved and that we can pat our Manager, so it is still very welcome.
Fidelity, on the back and say well done.
These long term returns are indeed excellent and on behalf of shareholders thank you, Fidelity.
I would like also to commend those at Fidelity for their Fidelity Special Values PLC NAV 5 Year Trailing NAV & Share Price Returns hard work and excellent administration, not least of all %pa: February 2000 to June 2009 compiling this Annual Report.
25% THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING: WEDNESDAY 16 DECEMBER AT 11.30 AM 20% The Annual General Meeting will be held at Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street St Pauls or Mansion House 15% tube stations on Wednesday 16 December 2009 at 11.30am.
It is the most important meeting that we, Above 10% p. a.
11.5% 10% 9.9% the Directors of your Company, have each year and we do urge as many of you as possible come and join 5% us for the occasion.
Sanjeev Shah will be making his annual presentation to shareholders, highlighting the 0% achievements of the year past and the prospects for the year to come.
The meeting provides shareholders with -5% the opportunity to ask questions, make comments and recommendations: most importantly it gives the Board of Directors the chance to meet you and get to know your own views and concerns.
NAV Return Share Price Return At the launch of the Company in 1994 five Directors Sources: Fidelity, Datastream and Morningstar as at 31 August 2009 Basis: bid-bid with net income reinvested were appointed to the Board.
Three of those Directors Page 6 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Feb 00 Jun 00 Oct 00 Feb 01 Jun 01 Oct 01 Feb 02 Jun 02 Oct 02 Feb 03 Jun 03 Oct 03 Feb 04 Jun 04 Oct 04 Feb 05 Jun 05 Oct 05 Feb 06 Jun 06 Oct 06 Feb 07 Jun 07 Oct 07 Feb 08 Jun 08 Oct 08 Feb 09 Jun 09 Chairmans Statement still serve the Company and without speaking for of the best governance.
An old quote, attributed to myself I can say that their length of service, as well anonymous, says it all: as their own performance as Directors, has made an important contribution to the successful governance Management is about doing things right.
of the Company over the fifteen years.
We have been Leadership is about doing the right things.
addressing the task of renewing and refreshing the Board over the last few years with the appointments As a board of directors, we have always tried to do the of Nicky McCabe, Lynn Ruddick and Ben Thomson in right things and I would like to think that the success of recent times.
Very sadly Sir Richard Brooke feels that it Fidelity Special Values over the years is in a small part is time for him to step down and he will not be seeking due to that.
re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
He is a wonderfully wise person and, with his great knowledge and OUTLOOK AND PROSPECTS: DIFFICULT TO TELL experience of the financial world generally and of I am not going to dwell at length on the prospects for investment trusts particularly, he has made an important the British stock market or for that of Fidelity Special contribution to the success of the Company during his Values because in all truth it is very difficult to tenure as a Director.
A huge thank you is also due to him.
make any sort of forecast with a great deal of certainty.
While in the past there has always been some sense of We are in the process of appointing at least one more unanimity about what lies ahead, I detect that opinions Director to the Board.
During the course of the next year, are quite divided.
It is difficult to believe that the most I will step down as a Director of the Company and severe financial crisis in almost 80 years is suddenly over indeed as Chairman of the Board of Directors: the in a matter of months and that there are not going to be Directors other than myself will decide on who it some longer term consequences of the mess we found is that will succeed me.
I have been greatly honoured to ourselves in.
The history of banking crises does not serve as both a Director and as Chairman and indeed suggest that it will.
most fortunate to have been associated with some wonderful people my fellow Directors and many However the banking system has now been put under people at Fidelity, including the talented and successful the care of tax payers whether he or she likes it or not.
Part of working with great people is that Huge quantities of money have been thrown into the the work is fun and the last fifteen years despite one financial system and into the economy in an effort to or two downs to go with the many ups it has been: avert a depression.
The cost of avoiding the necessary successful governance is team work and should be fun: changes that a crisis usually brings about means the if not, it is unlikely to be successful.
While I can claim major causes of the catastrophe regulatory little individual credit for the great long term success incompetence, insatiable greed and living beyond of Fidelity Special Values, being part of the team that our means appear to me to be alive and well.
Still the made it has made it wonderfully worthwhile.
likelihood is that in time we will adopt better ways perhaps a change of government will see to that and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE that a healthier financial system will emerge, that we will There seems to be a never-ending stream of new start to save more as a nation and that our individual corporate governance guidelines and rules and ambitions will be satisfied a little less avariciously.
We regulations that boards have to deal with each year.
This do eventually learn from our mistakes.
year there are additional requirements emanating from the European Unions Disclosure and Transparency Rules The reason for buying shares in an investment trust Requirements the DTR.
Much of it is not about the company is that the professional management brought principles and practice of good governance but rather to bear on the management of the portfolio and the information about facts and statistics pertaining to the guidance and governance of a board of directors will year in question which have always formed part of the earn shareholders a proper return that they might not Directors Report.
We have continued to provide that otherwise be able to do for themselves.
It seems to information in the Directors Report but, at the end of me that between the Board of Directors and Fidelity the Corporate Governance Statement, we have cross there is an excellent team which should be capable referenced that information which the DTR requires.
of earning those excellent returns I have been referring to in this statement.
The much longer term prospects I would like to make an important point about corporate would therefore seem bright.
governance and the statements that are traditionally made about compliance namely concerning a boards determination to apply the highest of governance standards.
Compliance with guidelines and rules and regulations does not of itself result in high standards of governance: it merely sets a minimum base.
It is Alex Hammond-Chambers the success or otherwise of the leadership of a board in Chairman directing and guiding management in the pursuit of the 3 November 2009 goals of the business that ultimately sets the standards Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 7
