214665 Finsbury WWP FC-pp13 6 15 09 1:19 PM Page 02 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 02 Chairmans Statement THE YEAR UNDER REVIEW HAS BEEN A CHALLENGING ONE FOR STOCK MARKETS AS A WHOLE, AND IN THIS, MY LAST STATEMENT AS CHAIRMAN, I MUST REPORT THAT THE COMPANYS UNDILUTED NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE DECLINED BY 6.6%.
Further information on the Companys investments can be REVIEW OF THE found in the Review of Investments beginning on page 7.
YEAR AND PERFORMANCE CAPITAL In my first statement covering a full The Board continued its commitment to its policy of active financial year, I am delighted to discount management whereby consideration is given to report that the Companys buying back shares at prices representing a discount greater undiluted net asset value per share than 6% to the diluted net asset value per share, if there is rose by 30.7% compared to a rise of demand in the market for it to do so.
In line with this policy, a Martin Smith 14.9% in the Companys benchmark total of 4,841,800 shares were repurchased and held in treasury index during the same period.
This during the year at a cost of 24,746,000 including expenses, was against a background of particularly difficult market representing 10.5% of the shares in issue excluding treasury conditions generally and by way of comparison, the MSCI World shares at the beginning of the year.
Since the Board index declined by 22.2% in sterling terms over the same period.
implemented a policy of protecting a 6% discount in late 2004, It is particularly pleasing to report that your Company benefitted 16.3 million shares have been repurchased representing 30% from solid investment performance, arising mainly from a of the shares in issue following the fund raising in 2004.
I combination of stable earnings of companies in the portfolio would like to remind shareholders that the Board has resolved and a more buoyant merger and acquisition environment.
This that any shares held in treasury will be cancelled on the date result demonstrates clearly the defensive characteristics of the of the Annual General Meeting each year and consequently all pharmaceutical and biotechnology sector and against this shares held in treasury on 17 July 2009 will be cancelled.
background our Investment Manager increased the Companys Shareholder approval to renew the authority to repurchase the net debt position moving from c. 3m of net funds to c. 30m of Companys shares will be sought at the Annual General net debt over the course of the year.
performance was also helped by the significant weakening of sterling against the U. S. dollar during the year.
At 31 March 2009 The Board has recently announced that it is considering the exchange rate was 1.4334 compared with 1.9875 at proposals for a bonus issue of subscription shares to 31 March 2008, a fall of 28%.
The Board believes that subscription shares represent an attractive way in which investors can participate During the year, after taking into account the number of in future net asset value growth through subscribing for warrants outstanding, the Companys diluted net asset value ordinary shares.
Documents containing recommended per share rose by 24.5% which compares to a rise in the proposals will be posted to shareholders following the passing Companys share price of 20.5%, as the discount of share price of the resolution that the Company should continue as an to the diluted net asset value per share widened slightly investment trust company, to be proposed at this years during the year to close at 8.3% compared to 5.3% a year ago.
This discount level at the year end was slightly wider than the 6% target: however I would like to remind shareholders that it At the regular warrant exercise date of 31 July a total of 13,070 remains possible for the share price to trade slightly wider than warrants were exercised raising 61,000 as at 31 July 2008. the discount target and the discount reflects the balance of Warrantholders have one remaining opportunity to exercise supply and demand for the Companys shares on any one day.
their warrants at a price of 464p on 31 July 2009.
A separate circular providing full details of this remaining opportunity will During the calendar year to 31 December 2008, the Companys be dispatched to warrantholders.
share price total return ranked second out of approximately 250 UK listed investment companies Source: Winterflood Securities Limited and the Company was awarded Best Specialist Trust 2008 by Investment Trust magazine.
214665 Finsbury WWP FC-pp13 6 15 09 1:19 PM Page 03 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 03 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2008 Despite a difficult market backdrop in the short term, the DERIVATIVES AND PORTFOLIO Board believes that continued merger and acquisition activity INVESTMENTS will be a key driver for the healthcare sector, together with the The Company continues to use derivative instruments to expected successful development of a number of important enhance the total return to shareholders, within certain limits, new products.
Improved regulatory efficiency at the U. S. Food so that no more than 5% of the Companys assets are exposed and Drug Administration is also expected to result in a more to the strategy.
The Board is pleased to note that gains of positive stance towards new drug approvals.
However, we 1.7 million were generated during the year from the strategy remain cautious concerning the prospects for some large by our Investment Manager.
In excess of 8.5 million of pharmaceutical companies which are facing the prospect of additional returns have now been generated since the low research productivity and a wave of patent expirations inception of the strategy in 2006. over the coming years.
Also, during the year, the Board agreed that up to 5% of the The Board continues to believe that in OrbiMed Capital LLC the portfolio could be allocated to each of debt instruments, Company has at its disposal a first class investment convertibles and royalty bonds issued by pharmaceutical and management team and that the portfolio is well positioned to biotechnology companies, as the Companys Investment take advantage of not only a bright outlook for the sector, but Manager believes that there are good investment also any recovery in stock markets generally.
The Board remains opportunities available in these areas.
optimistic for the fortunes of the sector as a whole and for the Company and would like to thank shareholders for their REVENUE AND DIVIDENDS continued support.
The revenue return for the year was 2.4 million 2008: 1.7 million and the Board, in order to maintain investment trust CONTINUATION VOTE status, has declared an interim dividend of 5.0p per share The Board has undertaken that every five years there will be a 2008: 3.0p.
continuation resolution tabled at the Annual General Meeting The interim dividend will be payable on 27 July 2009 to equity falling in that year, and accordingly such a resolution is shareholders on the register of members on 26 June 2009.
The included in the notice of Annual General Meeting contained shares will go ex-dividend on 24 June 2009. within this report.
In light of the Companys track record, the prospects for the healthcare sector and the Company, the VAT Board unanimously recommends that shareholders vote in As shareholders will be aware from my previous statements, VAT favour of Resolution 14 to allow the Company to continue as is no longer charged on investment management fees an investment trust for a further five years.
following the ruling by the European Court of Justice in October 2007.
Negotiations with the Companys previous Manager, Close ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Investments Limited Close, are continuing with respect to The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at recovering VAT previously written off as irrecoverable and the the Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, Wood Street, Company expects, subject to the co-operation of Close, to have London EC2Y 5BL on Friday, 17 July 2009 from 12 noon.
I hope recovered such VAT by 30 September 2009. as many shareholders as possible will attend.
This will provide an opportunity to hear from Mr Samuel D Isaly of OrbiMed, the OUTLOOK Companys Investment Manager, on the period under review, The economic outlook remains uncertain and stock market recent developments in the healthcare sector and the conditions will continue to be volatile and difficult.
The Board prospects for the future.
and your Investment Manager continue to monitor closely Martin Smith developments in the healthcare sector and to explore new Chairman investment opportunities.
