Chairmans Statement Our private equity portfolio had a significant effect on our performance against the benchmark and the close peer group, as the indices do not include private equity and only one of our close peers has any exposure to this asset class.
In 2008 private equity valuations fell by less than listed markets, but this was largely a timing issue and we expected valuations to fall in 2009.
This was all too accurate a forecast and our private equity portfolio fell by 13.1%.
This was partly due to the strength of sterling as Mark Loveday explained in the Fund Managers review.
The recovery Chairman in listed markets has already begun to feed through to private equity valuations.
Stock selection made a positive contribution to our results in 2009.
We underperformed slightly in the UK 2009 was a much better year than we expected and Developed Asia, though the longer-term records twelve months ago.
Your Companys share price rose in these markets remain good.
We had a strong year by 19.1% to 272.1 pence over the year, and 46.5% in North America and Europe, but a disappointing from the low of 185.75 pence on 3 March 2009. year in Japan.
Since the year-end the management The total dividend for the year will be 6.65 pence per of our Japanese portfolio has been moved back to share, an increase of 3.1%.
Our net asset value total F&C, where performance over the last four years return per share was 21.3%, which was below the has been better as explained in the Fund Managers returns of our benchmark and our close peer group review.
Reducing gearing at the start of the year and Our listed portfolio did well, but our private equity funding buyback activity were the main reasons for portfolio fell in value as I forewarned last year, and portfolio changes in our listed portfolio.
We sold this was the main reason for our disappointing 288m of shares in our listed portfolio, invested relative performance.
In 2010 we expect private a net 37m in private equity, spent 121m on equity to do better, whereas listed markets may find share buybacks and repaid 110m of short-term the going harder.
At the year-end effective gearing was Over the last ten years to 31 December 2009, 6.0% compared with 12.2% at the end of 2008. shareholders have had a share price total return Being geared into rising markets contributed 0.4% of 34.0%, compared with the total return of our to our performance and buying back shares added benchmark of 13.8% and the weighted average of another 1%.
No performance fee was earned by F&C this year.
Our total expense ratio was 0.58% of average total Performance, Attribution and Activity assets, unchanged from 2008.
Since 2003 some 15% of the portfolio has been invested in Emerging Markets and Developed Asia Income, Expenses and Earnings to capture the rapid economic growth and exciting 2009 was the worst year for UK and US dividends investment opportunities in these regions.
The most severe reductions came in difficult 2008 these areas performed strongly in 2009, the banking sector, but many companies raising fresh and our investment there was the biggest positive funds accompanied these moves with significant contributor to our results for the year.
Many of our largest holdings did in listed markets added 3.1% to performance, but increase their dividends, but this was not enough to overall asset allocation was 2.3% negative owing to offset the damage.
Exchange rate movements and the drag of private equity.
2 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC FCITs share price total return vs Benchmark, Close Peers and Retail Prices Index over 10 years 150 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 70 Source: Morningstar UK Limited 60 Dec 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Dec 99 09 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust total return Composite Benchmark 40% FTSE All-Share 60% FTSE WI World ex UK Close Peer Group total return weighted average Retail Prices Index portfolio sales also had a negative impact on our total and is above the 2.4% increase in the Retail Prices gross income, which fell by 22.4% to 52.7 million.
Management and performance fees fell, but other We believe the worst of the cuts in dividends is operating expenses increased by a similar amount, over, but our total revenue will fall again in 2010. largely due to the significant costs of obtaining Nevertheless we expect to pay at least the same bank loan facilities.
As a result, overall operating dividend for 2010. expenses were marginally higher than in 2008.
We had no VAT repayment credits which, together FCITs annual dividend per share vs weighted with associated interest, totalled 8.9m over the average Close Peer Group, FTSE All-share and previous two years.
On the other hand, finance Retail Prices Index over 10 years costs fell by 4m as a result of the repayment of short-term borrowings early in the year.
Buying back 230 and cancelling shares had a positive impact on 210 revenue earnings per share, which were 5.31 pence 190 compared with 6.90 pence in 2008.
170 Dividends 150 A year ago we forecast that the dividend for 2009 130 would be at least maintained.
An unchanged interim dividend of 3.00 pence per share was paid in 110 September 2009.
We are now proposing to pay a Source: Morningstar UK Limited & F&C Management Limited 90 second interim dividend of 3.65 pence per share on Dec 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Dec 31 March 2010, in lieu of a final dividend, which last 99 09 year was 3.45 pence per share.
The total dividend Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust annual dividend per share for the year will therefore be 6.65 pence per share, FTSE All-share dividend per year an increase of 3.1% on the previous year.
This is the Close Peer Group Ex FCIT dividend per year 39th consecutive increase in the annual dividend, weighted average Retail Prices Index Report and Accounts 2009 3 C Ch ha aiirrm ma an ns S s Stta atte em me en nt t c co on nttiin nu ue ed d We are able to increase our dividend this year and than the FTSE 100 Index - since we first entered the make a forecast for 2010, because of the strength of index in December 1995 our share price has risen our revenue reserve.
The ability to retain income in by 70%, while over the same period the index itself good times and build up a revenue reserve is a major is up only 45%.
In anticipation of difficult times, we decided more than ten years ago The Board to increase our reserve when income was strong, Ronald Gould retired from the Board on 27 January with a view to using part of it when needed.
Indeed 2010 owing to increasing commitments overseas.
the transfer from reserves in 2009 is less than the He was appointed Chief Executive of Chi-X Asia VAT repayment credits we received in 2007 and Pacific in September 2009 and has now moved to 2008.
After paying the second interim dividend, the Hong Kong.
Ron joined us in 2005 and has been an reserve will be about 94.6m compared with the excellent and effective Director, providing an incisive annual dividend cost of 43.2m.
and insightful contribution to the Board.
I would like to thank him for all he has done for the Company Buybacks over the last five years.
After a lull of over a year, our share buyback activity I will be retiring immediately following the Annual picked up sharply from September 2009.
For the General Meeting on 6 May 2010, having served as year as a whole we bought back 46,930,650 shares, a Director on the Board of your Company for nine or 6.9% of the shares in issue at the start of 2009. years, and the last eight years as your Chairman.
It is very striking that when markets were at their I am delighted to say that, after a comprehensive most volatile and depressed levels, the discount search and interview process, we announced in reduced and we bought back hardly any shares.
September 2009 the appointment of my successor, When conditions improved and investors became Simon Fraser, as a Director and Chairman less risk averse, the discount widened and buybacks Designate.
Simon has a wealth of investment increased.
At the year end the discount was 10.7% experience and knowledge, having worked at compared with 10.9% at the end of 2008.
Fidelity International for over 28 years, where he was Chief Investment Officer from 1999 to 2005.
He Shareholders became a non-executive director of Barclays PLC The number of shareholders rose marginally this year in 2009, and he has had experience of investment to 109,000, but the more significant change was in companies through his non-executive directorships the composition of the share register.
Investors in at Merchants Trust PLC, Fidelity European Values the various F&C savings plans made net purchases PLC and Fidelity Japanese Values PLC.
These savings plan investors own 41% of the Company, while institutions account for only 16%.
Direct investors here and in New Zealand, shares owned in other savings plans and wrappers, and holdings managed for individuals by professional managers account for the balance of 43%.
In March 2009 we entered the FTSE100 Index for the third time in the last fifteen years, and in September 2009 we left the index for the third time.
Simon Fraser On each occasion we have entered the index, in Chairman Designate 1995, 2003 and 2009, it has been close to 3500 and thereafter there has then been a strong market Simon Fraser joined your Companys Audit and rally, which has led to us falling out again.
In the Management Engagement Committee on his long term our performance has been much better appointment.
He also joined the Nomination 4 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Committee on 1 January 2010 and was appointed bad as I had feared, but share prices have had one as its Chairman on 27 January 2010.
He will take of their best ever years.
While there remains great over from me as Chairman of the Board immediately uncertainty about the future, there are some issues following my retirement at the end of the Annual that are much clearer than a year ago.
The first is the acceleration of the transfer of Simon Fraser is standing for election at the Annual economic power from West to East.
We believe this General Meeting.
Michael Bunbury and Max Ward process has many years to run, although it will be are standing for annual re-election as they have accompanied by periodic crises and setbacks.
Our both served on the Board for more than nine years.
exposure to faster growing markets, both directly Following the annual performance appraisal process, and through holdings in companies which derive an the Board is recommending that shareholders vote increasing proportion of their revenues from these in favour of all of these Directors.
We do think that economies, will continue to play a very important part an element of continuity and experience is very in our investment strategy.
important for a long-term investment company.
The second is the huge level of government debt in It has been a great privilege for me to serve as many countries, but particularly the UK and the USA.
a Director and as Chairman of your Company.
I Unless governments come up with credible plans to would like to thank my colleagues on the Board for reduce their deficits there is a real danger of renewed their support throughout, and also the investment, market turmoil and currency volatility.
secretarial and finance teams at F&C, and in The third is that there will be a long period during particular Jeremy Tigue and Hugh Potter.
Foreign & which many individuals and companies will need Colonial Investment Trust is a very special company to reduce their debts to put themselves on a more with a long history, surviving through many difficult secure financial footing.
If this leads to an increase times, and managing over the long-term to grow in savings, there may be increased demand for our shareholders money in a prudent and effective way.
Your Company is in good hands and in good shape, After the sharp rises of the last twelve months we and I wish all of you every success in the future.
are expecting markets to be volatile in 2010.
In the UK the general election will create uncertainty, but Management the most significant global uncertainty is when and After its annual comprehensive review of the how central banks end the exceptional measures of Managers overall performance and service very low interest rates and quantitative easing they during the year, your Board has decided that F&C put in place to respond to the financial crisis.
should continue as Manager, and believes that Our strategy is to remain highly diversified, their re-appointment on the terms agreed is in the to concentrate on companies with strong financial interests of shareholders as a whole.
positions that can pay dividends and to maintain In mid 2009 F&C Asset Management plc as much financial flexibility as possible.
We expect FCAM, the Managers parent company, became to invest more in private equity in 2010 as part of totally independent following Friends Provident our existing commitments currently totalling 260m PLCs distribution of its 52% shareholding to its are drawn down into new investments.
Any lingering uncertainty over FCAMs convinced of the long-term attractions of private equity.
future was therefore removed, leaving it better Looking ahead, the Alternative Investment Fund positioned to develop and grow its business.
Management EU Directive, which is expected to come into effect in 2012, will result in some changes The Future and extra expense for investment companies.
A year ago I expected 2009 to be the worst year The Association of Investment Companies, your for global economic growth since 1945, and I also own Board and other investment companies are pointed out that equities were cheaper than they had lobbying hard to ensure that this EU Directive is been for many years.
The economic news was as not unduly restrictive.
In terms of opportunities, the Report and Accounts 2009 5 Chairmans Statement continued Financial Services Authoritys Retail Distribution Annual General Meeting Review in the UK should be positive for investment I would encourage you to return your voting companies, when implemented in 2013, as it should instructions for the Annual General Meeting, which level the playing field with open-ended investment will be held at Merchant Taylors Hall at 12 noon on companies.
The payment of advisory fees, rather Thursday 6 May 2010.
All shareholders and savings than commission to financial advisers, should result plan investors are welcome to attend.
Our Fund in more investment companies being included on Manager will make a presentation, and you will fund distribution platforms and being recommended be able to meet and question the Directors at the by advisers on the basis of their performance and meeting and afterwards over refreshments.
you will be able to join us.
We will continue to strive for good and consistent relative outperformance over the long-term, and look to add value for shareholders through a virtuous circle of net asset value and share price total return, discount control management, dividend growth, a low and competitive total expense ratio and effective marketing.
Mark Loveday Chairman 4 March 2010 6 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
