Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that the Group has had another successful year which is very satisfying in view of the adverse market conditions.
Profit before tax increased by 20% from Staff 60.9 million to 73.1 million, and turnover increased by 10% from 120.3 The culture of Hargreaves Lansdown is to million to 132.8 million.
Our percentage provide our clients with the best of revenue which is recurring in nature i. e. information, the best service and the best Everything we do renewal commission, management fees and prices.
This has borne fruit and we continue would not be possible interest fell slightly to 70% compared to to attract new clients and retain existing without the hard work 72% for the previous year due in part to the clients.
Everything we do would not be record volume of stockbroking deals possible without the hard work of all our of all our sta and I handled during the second half of the staff and I should like to pay special tribute should like to pay financial year which increased the level of to them.
Without their efforts we would be special tribute to them.
unable to produce such a performance.
Without their eorts Operating costs were well controlled Board Changes we would be unable to allowing our operating profit margin to produce such a increase from 48.0% to 52.5%.
Underlying Since flotation, to comply with the performance.
diluted earnings per share have risen by 22% Combined Code of Corporate Governance I to 11.0 pence compared to 9.0 pence for have worked towards separating my 2008.
Chairmans duties with my Executive responsibilities and therefore will be During the year our assets under stepping down as Executive Chairman of the administration increased from 11.1 billion Group at the Annual General Meeting to 11.9 billion.
This includes 1.4 billion AGM, with effect from 1 December 2009.
The Board is proposing of assets under our own management.
I shall however remain on the Board as an Executive Director.
a final ordinary Total assets under administration increased dividend of 4.229 by 7% in comparison to a decline in the Mike Evans, who has served enthusiastically pence 2008: 2.42p FTSE All-Share index of 24%.
as a Non-Executive Director for the Group for the last three years, has agreed to seek and a special dividend Dividend election at the AGM as Non-Executive of 2.807 pence 2008: Chairman with effect from 1 December 2.324p The performance of the Group has allowed 2009.
His knowledge and experience have us to propose a final ordinary dividend of proven invaluable to the Board.
This should 4.229 pence per share increasing the total stand him in good stead to develop the ordinary dividends up to 7.294 pence per Chairmans role.
This total dividend payout equates to 65% of post tax profits.
Tracey Taylor was appointed as Group Finance Director on 24 November 2008 As in previous periods we have reviewed our having previously been Group Accounting cash requirements going forward and are Director and a member of the Executive Dividends per share pleased to propose a special dividend of Committee.
Tracey who has been with us 2.807 pence per share.
This equates to a for ten years has stepped seamlessly into the Total dividends have further 25% of post tax profits taking the role justifying our policy of promoting total dividend payout for the year to 10.101 internally.
increased by 29% pence per share.
We remind shareholders that any special dividend in future years will During September 2009, Jonathan Bloomer 2009: 10.101 pence depend upon our future cash requirements will come to the end of his three year term as 2008: 7.809 pence and therefore will vary.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and I am pleased to report that he has showed a willingness to continue in this role for a further three years and will seek reelection at the 2009 AGM.
5 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 Chairmans Statement Executive Management Regulation Conclusion Team Changes Further details of the much awaited Retail Peter Hargreaves in his Chief Executive My congratulations go to Ian Hunter Distribution Review were issued by the report has highlighted the performance of Investment Marketing Director and Nick Financial Services Authority in June 2009. the Group and the outlook for the future.
Marson Vantage and Broking Operations As with all reviews there are still areas to be The Board of directors, together with the Director on their appointments which took clarified but we are delighted that in the Executive Committee, has operated effect from 1 July 2009.
Both Ian and Nick main it has vindicated our business model as efficiently and with strength of purpose have been with the Group for twelve years the one the whole industry should follow.
during the year and I would like to thank all having developed their expertise and We do not feel there are any areas of the my fellow directors for their contribution.
review which cause ourselves any major Our trading performance demonstrates the issues and we look forward to continuing to resilience of our business model.
The We recognise that not all appointments can work with our regulators to improve the development of our Board, Executive be made internally and welcome Ian Gorham standards within our industry.
Committee and subsidiary Boards illustrates to the Group as Chief Operating Officer with the strength and depth of the management effect from 1 September 2009.
Ian joins us Offices team and our desire to develop the Group as from Grant Thornton UK LLP where he was a public listed company.
a partner and head of the firms Financial On 22 July 2009 we signed the lease for the Services Group having built this up over a occupation of our offices at One College period of six years.
Prior to this he ran the Square, Bristol Harbourside.
The signing Regulatory Practice in the South West for a of the lease signalled the start of the fit-out major consultancy.
We all look forward to works and although we have set a very tight Stephen Lansdown working with Ian and benefiting from his timetable we still anticipate being in Chairman knowledge of the financial services market.
occupation by the end of January 2010.
22 September 2009 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 6
