HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Group Chairmans Statement Group Chairmans Statement lessons are quick or simple, but the need for urgent change is clearer than ever.
Supporting customers and delivering results throughout the cycle Throughout the crisis, HSBC has remained profitable, financially strong and independently owned by our shareholders.
It is testimony to the quality and strength of HSBCs management team that, in 2009, our underlying performance was significantly ahead of 2008.
On an underlying basis, and excluding the impact of the goodwill impairment recorded in 2008, pre-tax profit was US$13.3 billion, 56 per cent higher.
On a reported basis, profit before tax was US$7.1 billion, down 24 per cent, in part due to the reversal of fair value accounting gains on our own 2009: a year of transition debt.
In a number of important respects, 2009 was a year That HSBC has reported a pre-tax profit in all of transition.
three years since the onset of the crisis should be a It began with further turbulence in global source of great confidence to our shareholders, our financial markets but, during the year, the markets depositors and all of our customers.
Our track record pulled back from uncertainty and progressively of delivering results through adversity, and at all stabilised as a consequence of the continued, stages of the economic cycle, remains intact.
extraordinary and timely actions by governments and We continued to enhance our financial strength central banks.
We strengthened our capital base by 2009 also saw the deepest contraction in the real US$10.2 billion through underlying profit economy in any year since the second world war.
This comfortably covers our dividends However, it was apparent by year end that the worst declared, which total US$5.9 billion in respect of was over even if confidence remained fragile and 2009.
The directors have announced a fourth interim recovery would be uneven.
dividend of 10 cents per ordinary share, payable on 5 May 2010, and we remain one of the leading payers The global macro-economic transition from of dividends in financial services, declaring West to East gathered pace during 2009.
At HSBC dividends in respect of the last three years of over we have long been convinced that the worlds US$24 billion in total.
economic centre of gravity is shifting, and the financial crisis has only accelerated this trend.
The successful completion of our rights issue in April added US$17.8 billion to shareholders equity Nevertheless, huge challenges and risks remain and helped to set the tenor for market recovery.
success demonstrated the strong confidence which While emerging markets are leading global you, our shareholders, have in our future and we are recovery and seem certain to drive the majority of profoundly thankful for your support.
the worlds growth in the generation ahead, recovery We indicated at the time of the rights issue our in developed markets has been slow to start, and expectation that, if successful, it would increase our unemployment remains high.
tier 1 ratio by around 150 basis points.
I am pleased Furthermore, the global rebalancing of demand to report that our tier 1 ratio increased by some 250 has barely begun.
The financial crisis brought into basis points to 10.8 per cent at 31 December 2009, stark relief the extent of the imbalances, especially largely as a result of the rights issue and internal between over-consuming Western economies and capital generation.
The core tier 1 ratio was 9.4 per high-saving emerging markets.
Rebalancing requires cent at the same date, increasing by some 240 basis structural change and international co-operation, and points.
Throughout the crisis, our strategy has remained There are also important lessons to learn as we clear: to build on our position as the leading seek to reform the financial system.
Few of these international and emerging markets bank.
We have 8 also never forgotten that it is our responsibility to principles set out in the Walker Review in the UK.
make a real contribution to economic and social During 2009, we also took further steps to strengthen development, and that our ability to do so is our top management team.
Sandy Flockhart was fundamental to our success in delivering sustainable appointed Chairman, Personal and Commercial value to our shareholders.
Banking, with responsibility for Personal Financial Services, Commercial Banking and Insurance, Meeting our commitments to the communities HSBCs Latin American and African businesses, and we serve around the world is not some optional extra most Group functions.
Stuart Gulliver was appointed or by-product of our business it is part of our Chairman, Europe, Middle East and Global raison d tre.
In Argentina, which was in the midst Businesses and assumed responsibility for Private of the peso crisis ten years ago, we did not abandon Banking, adding to his responsibilities for Global our customers and have remained committed to the Banking and Markets.
Douglas Flint assumed market ever since.
In 2009, our operations there additional responsibilities for Regulation and reported their best-ever underlying performance and Compliance in an expanded role as Chief Financial resumed paying cash dividends to the Group in Officer, Executive Director Risk and Regulation.
In mainland China, we are proud of Peter Wong was appointed Chief Executive of The our position as the leading international bank, and Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation we continued to build our strong rural presence Limited, succeeding Sandy Flockhart.
In Indonesia, we nearly doubled our network to support the growing financial needs of I would like to thank Vincent Cheng for his personal and business banking customers, and we tremendous contribution over the past five years as launched our SME fund in the United Arab Emirates Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking in January 2010.
These are just a few examples Corporation Limited, and look forward to continuing which illustrate our commitment to helping people to work with him as a main Board member and prepare for the future, building prosperity and Chairman of HSBC Bank China Company security for their families and communities.
I would also like to say thank you on behalf of Robust corporate governance and unrivalled the Board to three of our directors, Jos Luis Durn, management experience William Fung and Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, who will In 2009 we announced that, as Group Chief retire by rotation at the 2010 Annual General Executive, Michael Geoghegan would take Meeting and will not seek re-election.
It has been a responsibility for developing strategy as part of his privilege to work with each of them and all of us on overall responsibilities for the performance of the the Board are extremely grateful for their counsel Groups business.
We relocated the principal office and support.
of the Group Chief Executive to Hong Kong and, on 1 February 2010, he succeeded Vincent Cheng as Learning the lessons from the crisis Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking In 2009, the G20 set out its clear belief that Corporation Limited.
This underscores our sustainable globalisation and rising prosperity will commitment to our emerging markets businesses and require an open world economy based on market reflects the historic shift now taking place in the principles, effective regulation, and strong global global economy.
At HSBC, we agree that these principles HSBCs corporate headquarters remain in the are critical for the common good.
It is vital that the UK, where we continue to benefit from being at the industry should engage constructively in the debate heart of one of the worlds pre-eminent financial about how this should work in practice and HSBC is centres.
From this base, as Chairman, I spend an participating fully in these discussions.
In our view, increasing amount of my time engaging with the overall objective must be to deliver three policymakers and regulators throughout the world on effective market mechanisms.
behalf of the Group, on the growing number of Competitive product provision is fundamental to policy issues which are crucial for the banking economic and social development.
In the recent past, industry in general and for HSBC in particular.
attempts to drive ever greater profits from the same At HSBC, we have an extremely strong, diverse source resulted in distorted products, lack of and engaged Board and the international experience transparency and over-complexity.
The industry and expertise of our management team is something needs to learn the lessons from this and deliver a which sets us apart.
We are committed to delivering market which provides financial services that are effective supervision and to compliance with the competitive, transparent and responsive to genuine 9 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Group Chairmans Statement continued Group Chairmans Statement customer needs.
Similarly, if pre-eminent financial centres like London are to remain home to firms like HSBC, The market for capital has also suffered from those of us who care for its future must reflect the clear distortions in recent years.
There has been too reality of the global marketplace in our thinking and great an emphasis on short-term gains, often approach.
accompanied by shareholder pressure to increase leverage in order to boost returns, and a dangerous Third, an independent Remuneration Committee underpricing of risk.
This resulted in unsustainable should conduct rigorous international benchmarking returns, which in some cases proved to be illusory.
on compensation and consult appropriately on its Banks must be appropriately capitalised, sufficiently conclusions.
These are the principles we have liquid and not overstretched, and getting this right followed in determining HSBCs rewards this year.
will be crucial in delivering the sustainable financial Our executive Directors have a combined system we need for the future.
178 years of service a track record almost without Partly because of these problems in other areas parallel in the industry.
I believe there is no better of the marketplace, the third area requiring urgent management team in banking and it is no reform is the market for talent.
There is coincidence that HSBC has remained profitable understandable public anger in some countries as a throughout the financial crisis and paid dividends result of the practices at certain banks and, in when few other banks did.
Indeed, for 2009, our total particular, because of the egregious reward of dividends to shareholders once again comfortably management failure.
We have witnessed exceed total bonus awards.
We have not needed unacceptable distortions from rewards linked to taxpayers money: on the contrary, HSBC has unsustainable or illusory day-one revenues which contributed nearly 5 billion in tax to the UK encouraged excessive risk-taking: to multi-year economy over the past five years.
guaranteed bonuses with no performance criteria.
At HSBC, we firmly believe that bonuses are a Over the last three years I have spoken publicly legitimate and proper element of reward providing, about my concerns regarding remuneration and I will of course, awards fully satisfy the principles set out set out our principles at HSBC.
The G20 has set out clear guidance which HSBC wholly supports, and we comply with the Rewarding sustainable performance Financial Services Authoritys remuneration code of First, for any bank to be sustainable it must strike the practice.
Indeed, our decision to defer 100 per cent right balance in serving the long-term interests of its of executive Director bonuses in respect of 2009 stakeholders.
It must deliver sustainable returns to over three years exceeds these guidelines.
shareholders on their investment: it must maintain Proper pay for proper performance includes the capital strength needed to support the customers ensuring market-based pay for employees over time.
and economies it serves: and it must reward its The Board expects fixed pay in banking to increase employees appropriately.
My own experience is that as a proportion of total compensation, especially for colleagues want to know that their job makes a important risk and supervisory functions.
This is a difference and contributes to social and economic process we intend to see through at HSBC, and our development: reward is simply not the only management team is no exception.
Nonetheless it is important, and companies have a clear responsibility to treat their The Board fully appreciates that, in these employees appropriately.
extraordinary times, remuneration is enormously sensitive and particularly so when the absolute It therefore follows that remuneration must be numbers involved are large by any standards, even if firmly tied to sustainable performance and must not they are not in comparison with some other reward failure.
It should be properly aligned with companies of HSBCs standing.
Our practice is clear risk which remains on the balance sheet, and subject and transparent and this years executive awards are to deferral and to clawback in case performance later set out in the Directors Remuneration Report proves to be unsatisfactory.
We absolutely believe that the Second, in order to maintain long-term decisions we have taken on this years remuneration competitive advantage, remuneration must be awards are right for all of our stakeholders.
Underpaying ultimately results in a company losing some of its best people.
HSBC is Building a sustainable financial system for domiciled in the UK but we have around 300,000 the future employees in 88 countries and territories.
We have to As policymakers and industry participants take the think internationally, and remuneration policy is no 10 necessary steps to improve the way our markets needs banks which are big enough to cope by work, there are also some important over-arching having a diversified business portfolio, helping to challenges which we must address.
reduce risk and to generate consistent returns.
There has likewise not been enough consideration given to It is imperative to strike the right balance the need for banks to be broad enough to serve between strengthening the financial system and those global customers who have increasingly supporting economic growth.
fide-risking the diverse financial needs.
In short, it is undesirable and banking system, if taken too far, will throttle impractical to prescribe some ideal model for a bank.
recovery and drive risk into other, unregulated parts The crisis clearly demonstrated that systemic of the capital markets.
It is in the collective public importance is not a function of size or business interest to get this balance right.
implement hastily conceived responses and policy must be co-ordinated internationally if we are to HSBC has always believed in having a manage risk better in a truly global industry.
transparent structure based on separately capitalised subsidiaries, takes a conservative approach to Policymakers also need to evolve new liquidity management, and has built a business with macroeconomic tools which will assist them to the scale to provide broad, diversified services to its manage the supply of credit, as well as the cost of global customers.
While the detail and timing of credit, in the economy.
I believe a key element of regulatory change remain uncertain, we are this involves managing bank capital on a confident that our focus on these fundamentals countercyclical basis which strikes the right balance positions us strongly and competitively to respond to between financial system stability and the prospects the challenges ahead.
We cannot deliver a sustainable financial system without improving the wider framework for macroeconomic management too.
Finally, in the context of a wide-ranging discussion on the appropriate size and shape of banks, we must recognise that corporate structure and liquidity management are at least as important as size per se.
This debate has sometimes been given S K Green, Group Chairman the unhelpful shorthand too big to fail, but the 1 March 2010 reality is more complex than the headlines suggest.
We believe that the financial system 11
