Chairmans Statement Cash received from the portfolio by way of distributions, capital Introduction repayments and fees was 31.5m, and after Group costs, The Companys portfolio of PFI PPP investments has continued to produced a net operational cashflow of 23.4m, representing perform operationally in line with our forecasts.
As a result, your 1.26 times cover for the distributions paid in the year.
Net debt at Board was able to announce a second interim dividend of 3.275p the Group level was 57.7m at 31 March 2009 2008: 105.6m.
per share, in line with previously stated targets.
This makes a total for the year of 6.4p which was fully cash covered.
The total expense ratio for the Group on an Investment basis was 1.74% for the year to 31 March 2009 being the Groups The current economic climate and disruption to financial markets operational expenses excluding acquisition costs, divided by the has had a limited impact on the Group, but most specifically on Groups net assets on an Investment basis.
This compares with the valuation of the investment portfolio.
In our Interim 1.85% in the prior year.
Management Statement IMS issued on 28 January 2009, the Board and the Investment Adviser gave guidance on how the More details of the financial results are set out on page 10. economic and financial upheaval might affect their assessment of NAV.
We have today reported a NAV per share on an Investment Distributions basis of 107.2p post the second interim dividend.
As announced on 20 May 2009, the Board has declared a second interim dividend of 3.275p per share, and again there is a scrip The Board continues to see opportunities for growth and value as dividend alternative.
This brings the combined dividend for the we acquire new assets and actively manage the existing portfolio.
The Board remains committed to progressively Performance of the portfolio growing the annual distribution with the aim of achieving 7.0p by The portfolio of 28 investments comprises 27 PFI PPP projects in March 2013. the UK and the Netherlands, plus a mezzanine debt loan to Kemble Water, the Thames Water acquisition structure.
All have As previously, a circular is being sent to shareholders to explain performed in the period in accordance with their business plans.
Shareholders need to decide by 17 June 2009 on whether to take up the scrip dividend offer in All the projects are now operational and providing services to their part or in full.
The payment of a scrip dividend is expected to be public sector clients.
From time to time, as is normal, issues arise beneficial to a number of shareholders.
The dividend or scrip over service delivery at project level but none have approached dividend will be paid to those shareholders on the register as at materiality for the Group.
29 May 2009, and will be settled at the end of June.
On the Dutch High Speed Rail Link, certain signalling matters The Board is seeking to renew its power to offer a scrip dividend have emerged during testing.
These are now being corrected by alternative at the next Annual General Meeting AGM in August.
the signalling sub-contractor and will be retested to ensure compliance and reliability, in good time for the formal launch of Valuation the train service expected this summer.
As in previous periods, the Investment Adviser has prepared a fair market valuation for each investment in the portfolio as at The downgrade of Ambac Assurance UK Limited has caused the 31 March 2009.
For the PFI PPP investments, this valuation is senior funding on Blackburn Hospital to become marginally more based on a discounted cashflow analysis of the future expected expensive.
There are 6 projects in the portfolio involving monoline equity and loan note cashflows accruing to the Group from each insurers but Blackburn is the only project where a downgrade has investment.
In relation to the Kemble Water junior loan, since this had financial implications.
is a tradable debt instrument, it is valued on a market quote basis as at 31 March 2009.
This approach has been applied consistently There are no land sale payments outstanding in the current since the launch of the Company in 2006. portfolio, the proceeds from surplus land at Colchester Garrison having been received on time in December 2008.
The Directors have satisfied themselves with the methodology used, the discount rates applied, and the valuation.
The Directors Financial results have also obtained an independent opinion from a third party, In overview, on a consolidated IFRS basis, the loss before tax was with considerable expertise in valuing this type of investment, 12.4m 2008: 9.2m profit.
The loss per share on a consolidated supporting the reasonableness of the valuation.
IFRS basis was 4.3p per share, compared to earnings per share of 2.7p in 2008.
The Directors have determined the valuation of the portfolio to be 445.7m as at 31 March 2009.
There are no outstanding equity As in previous periods, the Company has also prepared pro-forma commitments still to be invested.
The weighted average discount accounts on an Investment basis treating all 28 holdings as rate used was 8.3%, up from 7.5% at 31 March 2008, and 7.9% investments.
The loss before tax on an Investment basis was at 30 September 2008.
22.0m 2008: 19.6m profit and loss per share on an Investment basis were 6.8p, compared to earnings per share of 7.8p in 2008.
4 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 I am pleased to report good operational performance from our portfolio of investments, with strong cash generation enabling growth in the annual dividend The valuation of 445.7m compares with 437.9m at 31 March Current target assets include: 2008 and 450.5m as at 30 September 2008.
A description of the process, an analysis of the valuation movements, and key PFI PPP P3 projects in the UK, Europe, North America and sensitivities are set out in more detail in the Investment Australia both operational and in their construction phases Advisers Report.
Operational renewable energy projects such as wind farms, solar parks or hydro-electric schemes, where there are The resulting NAV per share on an IFRS basis at 31 March 2009 is suitable contractual structures in place, enabling the Group to 111.1p 31 March 2008: 120.9p.
secure long term income streams comparable in nature to those in PFI PPP P3 projects.
A number of these schemes On an Investment basis the NAV per share is 110.5p at 31 March have now been developed in Europe with established 2009 31 March 2008: 123.1p.
The Investment basis NAV per contractual tariff regimes share after the second interim dividend at 31 March 2009 is Regulated utilities.
To date we have passed up investment 107.2p 31 March 2008: 119.9p.
The decline was presaged in the opportunities on the grounds of size and pricing.
However, IMS statement of 28 January 2009 which highlighted those opportunities to acquire stakes in regulated businesses are factors likely to produce a valuation shift.
now expected to arise at acceptable returns Selectively, debt funding in infrastructure projects where it is Portfolio Development attractively priced and appropriately structured.
The Group made the following acquisitions in the year to 31 March 2009: At the present time, the Group is unlikely to acquire investments in assets such as toll roads, airports and ports since the ability In July the Group acquired additional stakes in three existing to forecast revenues and determine appropriate valuations projects for a total consideration of 8.3m, taking the Groups remains difficult.
economic interest in each project to 100%.
These projects are: the Home Office, the Central Middlesex Hospital and the West Quasi-infrastructure investments in assets like ferries, motorway Middlesex Hospital service stations and care homes are outside the Groups In August the Group acquired a 50% interest in The Hospital investment policy and therefore will not be considered.
Company Oxford John Radcliffe Holdings Ltd from Carillion plc for a consideration price of 18m The Group does not rule out disposals.
Investments or stakes in In December the Group acquired the 30% equity held by investments will be sold when the prices offered are considered Siemens plc in the Barnet Hospital PFI project for a attractive and it is value enhancing overall.
This acquisition increased the Groups equity interest in the project from 51% to 81% Corporate Governance and Support In February the Group purchased the 19% equity stake held by The Board was strengthened on 9 June 2008 with the a subsidiary of Bouygues UK and Ecovert FM in the Barnet appointment of Sarah Evans as a director of the Company.
Sarah Hospital PFI project for a consideration of 1.7m.
This is a qualified accountant with many years experience working in transaction takes the Groups interest in this project to 100%.
financial institutions, and is a Guernsey resident.
Sarah was appointed to the Audit Committee on 12 November 2008.
The Group continues to selectively pursue new business.
The Board and the Investment Adviser continue to believe that at this As Chairman, I would like to take this opportunity to thank my time it is prudent to focus on new investment opportunities with fellow directors for their input and commitment over the last year.
broadly similar revenue and risk profiles to the existing portfolio.
Apart from the regular board meetings, there have been frequent Revenues need to be contractual or regulated and costs need to other meetings, not least in connection with the C share capital be certain.
Where services are subcontracted, specific attention is raising in May 2008. paid to the counter-parties ability to perform.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 5 Chairmans Statement continued The Company is reliant on the Investment Advisers team for the Outlook success of the business.
Whilst the Board retains control over Whilst the rapid decline in inflation rates RPI and CPI and bank strategy, capital and distribution policy, the day-to-day deposit rates LIBOR and EURIBOR has resulted in lower management of the business rests with the Investment Adviser, valuations, there has been no material impact on the current working closely with other service providers, including our operational performance of the Groups investments.
Our focus to Guernsey-based Administrator and Company Secretary.
The date on PFI PPP infrastructure assets has protected the business infrastructure equity team at HSBC has a great depth of from significant asset value diminution particularly when experience in this asset class.
On behalf of the Board, I would like compared to the falls in valuation of economic infrastructure to thank them for their hard work and dedication.
e. g. toll roads, airports and ports.
Risks and uncertainties We continue to see a number of opportunities to acquire With the availability of debt to fund new projects now scarcer than PFI PPP P3 projects, both in the UK and abroad.
At launch there it was a year ago, it should be noted that each PFI project in the were five projects still under construction, all of which are now portfolio has long term funding in place and so does not need operational, and the Group has an appetite to acquire more.
access to new debt capital.
The PFI projects do have exposures to banks in the form of interest rate swaps and cash in deposit We believe that there will be opportunities in the current accounts.
Such exposures are monitored and controlled.
environment to acquire a slightly wider range of infrastructure assets which will support growth in both our NAV and annual yield, The projects in the portfolio rely on contracting partners to provide without significantly changing the risk profile of the portfolio.
various services to each project.
There is a good spread of supplychain providers with no material performance issues to report.
In Our strategy of using acquisition debt finance at the Group level the changing economic climate, it is possible that some of our has been effective.
There has been no pressure to deploy surplus suppliers might encounter difficulties in their wider businesses cash.
A further equity raising is a possibility as we believe that could impact on the performance on the Groups projects.
investors remain attracted to our proposition.
We were pleased The Investment Adviser monitors project performance and the with the results of the C share issue in 2008 given the challenging Groups counterparty risk exposure.
When any performance market conditions at the time.
issues arise, prompt action is taken to ensure performance at the project level is not compromised.
It is difficult to predict how long the economy will be in recession, and how long before the financial markets operate more freely.
The UK Government announced in the Budget on 22 April 2009 We do however feel that the Group is well positioned, and the its intention to introduce new tax legislation concerning the tax Board, together with the Investment Adviser, will continue to deductibility of inter-group loan interest in UK subsidiaries of pursue a prudent strategy of asset and distribution growth.
foreign companies the World Wide Debt Cap.
The Investment Advisers initial assessment of the proposed legislation is that this will have an impact on the Group if enacted in its current form.
The new legislation will not take effect before 2010 and the Investment Adviser is currently assessing the best commercial solutions to minimise the consequences of this new tax regime Graham Picken on the Group.
Chairman 27 May 2009 6 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009
