IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Chairmans Statement 15 Revenue for the year was up 40% to 257m and diluted adjusted earnings per share increased 22% to 24.7p Chairmans Statement It is my pleasure to make this annual statement after another annual basis.
The result is that both executive and non-executive successful year at IG.
Our annual revenue has increased 40% to directors basic pay has fallen into the bottom quartile in most 257m 2008: 184m and diluted adjusted earnings per share relevant surveys.
After consultation with some of our leading shareholders, we have Whilst we have continued to grow our more established markets agreed some increases which are set out in detail in the Annual in the United Kingdom and Australia, we have also taken further Report.
We have also introduced an element of deferral into our steps in our strategy to diversify internationally.
In October 2008 we bonus structure, reflecting the FSAs recent pronouncements on acquired FXOnline Japan KK and also opened our office in Milan.
January 2009 we opened our office in Luxembourg.
Henceforth it is the present intention of the Remuneration IGs continuing success reflects our investment in high quality Committee to review basic pay on an annual basis.
dealing platforms, an innovative broad range of products and excellent customer service provided to our expanding client base.
Non-Executive Directors Having made significant progress in penetrating new geographic I am sorry to say that Sir Alan Budd has informed the board that markets for our products, our aim for the forthcoming year is to he wishes to step down as a non-executive director at a moment develop these to ultimately reach the scale that we have achieved in which is convenient to the board.
the United Kingdom and Australia.
Your board has accepted Sir Alans decision with understanding At the forthcoming AGM, your board will recommend the payment and regret.
of a final dividend of 11.0p per share.
This will bring the total dividend for the year to 15.0p, an increase of 25% on last year.
This Sir Alan joined the IG board when the Company was floated on represents a total dividend of approximately 60% of our earnings the London Stock Exchange in April 2005.
His highly distinguished for the year which is consistent with the policy that the board career in both Government and Business and the experience that announced two years ago.
Our policy, which we will review from Sir Alan has brought to your board has been much valued.
We will time to time, is to continue to pay a similar percentage of our miss his wise counsel.
We have commenced the process of finding a replacement for Sir Alan.
Later in our financial year, we will commence the search for an additional independent non-executive director in order to Board Evaluation make progress to becoming more compliant over time with Code This year your board decided to commission the Institute of Provision A3.2 of the Combined Code.
We will provide a further Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA, an external update in due course.
consultant, to conduct a full evaluation of the board in accordance with the Principle 6.
A of the Combined Code on Our results for the past year could not have been achieved without Corporate Governance.
the dedication and skill of all our employees throughout the world.
I and my fellow directors would like to express our thanks to them The board has reviewed and agreed with the recommendations all for their personal contributions to these excellent results.
made by ICSA, which I believe will lead to further improvements in board performance in the future.
I and all my colleagues at IG look forward to working towards ensuring another successful year for IG and its shareholders.
n Remuneration One matter which is understandably at the top of many investor agendas is that of remuneration.
Heretofore the Company has not reviewed executive and non-executive basic remuneration on an Jonathan Davie, Chairman, 21 July 2009
