Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 04 It is our objective to emerge from this recession as the leading fund manager of buyout debt in Europe and so once more deliver value to our shareholders.
Chairmans statement Overview underperforming assets: rather a much higher level of impairments on our weakest assets.
This reflects our expectation that, in the current 3 Delivered substantial shareholder value over many years, economic climate, recovery rates for these assets may prove to be and in that context these results are disappointing much lower than we have historically achieved.
We have provided 103m, representing 90 per cent of the 3 Priorities: manage our portfolio and maximise recoveries principal, against assets for companies that defaulted in the financial 3 Attractive opportunities arising from the extraordinary state year.
This impairment level assumes a much lower recovery rate on of the credit markets defaulted assets than our 20 year average of 64 per cent.
In addition, we have made a provision of 163m for assets that had not defaulted 3 Proposed final dividend of 20.5p net per share 41.0p for the full year during the reported financial year, but are considered to be impaired.
We have now impaired, on average, approximately 50 per cent of the initial carrying value of these assets.
In addition we have also For the first time in our 20 year history ICG is reporting a loss, which provided 36m for the equity stakes in ICG managed Collateralised is a matter of great regret to me and my fellow Directors.
While we Debt Obligations CDOs and consequently no longer have any were certainly as, or more, bearish than anyone else in the run up to material equity exposure to these.
Write backs on provisions previously the bursting of the credit bubble, we did not anticipate the severity of charged through the income statement were 29m.
the impact on financial markets, and consequently the effect on the On the whole our portfolio is performing satisfactorily and in level of early repayments we receive on our mezzanine loans.
Cyclical sectors represent only 13 per Our caution in early 2007, however, was matched with early decisive cent of the total portfolio, reflecting its defensive bias.
We reduced the investment rate in our core European We had spare balance sheet capacity of 312m at 31 March 2009 mezzanine market and increased the monitoring and management and do not have any material debt repayments in the financial year of our portfolio, which has a defensive bias.
As a result, ICG has ending 31 March 2010.
At year end, the first such payment was due delivered a resilient performance relative to our peers, in a challenging March 2011 when our 450m bank facility was due to expire.
Nonetheless, relative performance does not pay for respect, I am delighted that our banks have now agreed to extend increased dividends.
150m of this loan for an additional period of two years.
We believe that securing a four year banking line in such turbulent times is a Results overview significant achievement and underlines the continued support of our There has been a strong increase in core income, up 23 per cent main lenders.
In exchange we have agreed to reduce this facility by to 168m 2008: 136m.
At the same time, however, and reflecting 65m, leaving us with 247m of undrawn facilities.
our conservative policy, we have increased our provisions charge We are actively managing exits in order to free up further capital, to 273m net of recoveries.
In aggregate, this has resulted in a loss thereby funding future debt repayments and increasing our investment before tax of 67m 2008: 230m profit before tax.
capacity for new vintage transactions.
In total, we have approximately Throughout our 20 years of operation, we have taken a cautious 1.7bn available to invest through our third party funds, with the approach to impairments and will continue to do so.
This year we potential for more via continued fundraising.
We are pleased to felt it prudent to increase our provisions to 273m net of recoveries.
report a great deal of interest in our new Recovery Fund, despite the This, however, does not reflect a significant rise in the number of challenging fundraising environment.
Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 05 Core income 168m Loss before tax 67 m Full year dividend per share 41p Dividend Outlook The Board has proposed a final dividend of 20.5p per share making We are clearly in a world of heightened risk and limited visibility.
a total of 41.0p for the year, a decrease of 37 per cent on the last In the new financial year our principal priority will be to manage our financial year.
We have reduced our dividend to a level that is supported existing portfolio and maximise recoveries.
In light of the defensive by our cash core income, as defined in the Financial Review.
The nature of our portfolio, our conservative provisioning policy, and the rebased full year dividend of 41.0p is at a level that we believe can strength of our larger investments, at this point in time we expect be maintained while the current market conditions prevail, and grow provisions to be lower in the current year than in the year to when our cash core income begins to increase again.
The dividend will be paid on 21 August 2009 to shareholders We plan to invest the available capacity of our funds and our on the register at 17 July 2009. balance sheet in the outstanding opportunities that are emerging from the illiquid credit market.
Our focus will be on businesses Priorities that we know well, with strong and defendable market positions, predictable cash flows and high quality management.
We positioned our business early, and aligned both our corporate Over the past 10 years, the growth in ICGs third party funds and individual objectives to four priorities: under management has outstripped the growth of our balance sheet 3 Monitoring and managing the portfolio: and we expect this trend to continue if not accelerate.
As a result, a 3 Maintaining a strong balance sheet: higher proportion of our capital is likely to be sourced from third party 3 Continuing to raise third party funds: and funds in the future.
3 Selectively investing in secondary loans.
The Board and employees We believe this decisive early action has put us in a better position In March, Paul Piper announced his decision to retire.
In addition, to weather current market conditions.
Tom Bartlam will not stand for re election at the Annual General Market opportunity Meeting AGM.
On behalf of ICG, I wish to thank them both for their enormous contributions over the last 20 years.
They retire with our We believe that we will emerge from this recession as one of the very best wishes.
foremost direct investors and third party fund managers of buyout debt On behalf of the Directors of ICG, I would like to thank our in Europe, benefiting from a competitive landscape which is improving shareholders, fund investors and business associates, for their daily.
The enormous levels of volatility in credit markets, the absence continued support of ICG.
I am confident that we will create long of liquidity in the banking sector, and the rout of CDOs and credit term value, by using our experience and investment skills to take hedge fund investors, have left an opening for investors such as ICG advantage of the opportunities that are emerging.
to fill a vacuum and invest at attractive prices.
There are a number of I would also like to thank the management and employees for unusually attractive opportunities to invest in the debt of high quality their continued dedication and contribution to ICG, especially in businesses we know well and which are performing satisfactorily, at such challenging times.
levels of return that have not been seen before.
In addition, there will be increasing opportunities to refinance well run businesses with strong cash flows and good prospects but which simply have the wrong capital structure.
John Manser Chairman Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 06 Business review 08 Managing Directors' review 11 Business review 14 Our progress 16 Financial review Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 07
