U07039 1030 p3-5:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:08 Page 3 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Chairmans statement This has been a challenging year for customers and for businesses alike.
As encouraging participation in sport: and opening up the arts to more people.
We turbulence in the financial markets has been followed by pressures in the believe that seeing this bigger picture is a key part of durable success and longbroader economy and on household budgets, consumer-facing businesses have term value creation.
experienced a tougher environment than has been seen for some time.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express gratitude for the contribution of While no business is immune from these pressures, Sky has stood out for its the two Non-Executive Directors who stepped down during the last year.
Chase strong performance against this difficult backdrop.
Unlike many companies in Carey retired from the Board in February 2009 after six years valued service.
the media sector, our business has been built on direct relationships with Lord Jacob Rothschild stepped down in September 2008 after acting as a customers, and our focus on quality, choice and value has positioned us well to committed and independent Deputy Chairman of our Board for more than four meet their needs in hard times as well as good.
Both have provided leadership, support and counsel through challenging and important periods for the Company.
Personally I will miss them both, as I 2009 has been a year of achievement, with more customers choosing Sky for a know will the whole team at Sky.
broader range of entertainment and communications services than ever.
Twenty years on from our launch in February 1989, we have passed the milestone of I would also like to welcome Tom Mockridge to the Board following his nine million customers and we are deepening our relationships with those appointment as a Non-Executive Director in February 2009.
As Chief Executive families through our expansion into broadband and telephony.
of Sky Italia and Chief Executive, European Television at News Corporation, Tom brings further experience of international pay television to the Board.
Everyone associated with Sky should take pride in the achievements of the Companys first two decades.
We have built one of the UK and Irelands leading In my first full year as Non-Executive Chairman, I would like to give thanks for businesses by continually challenging the status quo and striving to bring more the commitment and expertise with which the entire Board continues to guide choices to more people.
I would also like to thank all of our 16,000 colleagues at Sky for the passion and dedication they have brought to the Company and its customers In an industry that has often relied on public intervention and subsidy, our story over the last year.
is a demonstration of how risk-taking and investment by private enterprise delivers good outcomes for consumers.
Sky has been a constant force for In a reection of our strong performance in challenging conditions, the Board change and progress: opening up choice in television: investing in high-quality proposes a 5% increase in the full year dividend to 17.6 pence per share.
content: innovating to improve the customer experience: and adapting to We thank all shareholders for their continued support as we look ahead with embrace new opportunities as entertainment and communications come optimism to the next 20 years.
James Murdoch With our commitment to customers comes a sense of responsibility in the way Chairman we do business.
In particular, we are making good progress in expanding our contribution in three key areas: helping to create a healthy environment: 29 July 2009 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 3 Annual Report 2009
