Chairmans statement Welcome to the 2009 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements.
In this Annual Report, we are integrating more material non-financial data and we hope this gives you a fuller picture of the Groups current performance and future potential.
Christopher Rodrigues Non-Executive Chairman We believe our corporate responsibility obligations underpin our vision, values and business principles.
They are an integral part of how we do business and we have reflected this, for the first time, by securing external assurance on some An important part of our of our customer-related key non-financial performance indicators.
We have done strategy is to realise the this as we believe customer treatment to be material to the business.
potential of our developing businesses in Mexico Trading performance and Romania.
In 2009, we faced the first major global recession since our business began its operations in emerging markets in 1997.
In last years Annual Report we wrote about the resilience we expected of our business.
We anticipated a sharp rise in impairment as our customers incomes and their ability to repay loans deteriorated as the global recession reached our markets.
However, we also said that our focus on responsible lending, personal relationships and short-term lending would help our business weather the storm, recover quickly and be well placed for growth in the subsequent recovery.
As expected, there were significant economic challenges to our business in the first half of the year, in particular the exceptional impact of the recession in Hungary, but we responded effectively with a material improvement in the second and third quarters, and a return to year on year profit growth for the Group in Quarter 4.
Our profit before tax of 61.7 million for the year from continuing operations was down from the 76.3 million in 2008 reflecting the scale of the recession but was nonetheless encouraging for a small sum, unsecured lending business in emerging markets.
An important part of our strategy is to realise the potential of our developing businesses in Mexico and Romania.
Mexico reported its first annual profit and in Romania start-up losses were much reduced and the country remains on track for its first annual profit in 2010.
We continue to believe there is considerable further potential in both of these markets.
Our decision to close our Russian pilot operation during 2009 was only reached after very careful consideration.
Whilst the results during the pilot were not as good as we had seen at the same stage in previous market tests, our key concern was to reduce the risk and financial strain to the Group during a period of considerable external economic uncertainty.
We expect to return to new country expansion once economic and financial market conditions are more settled.
10 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Directors report: Business review Board changes It is now nearly three years since the Company was established as a separate 2010 is a year in which listed company and I am pleased to announce some changes to the board.
we will be focused on We have recently appointed Edyta Kurek as a new non-executive director.
re-energising our existing Edyta is Polish and brings a wealth of relevant experience to the board having business and further worked at a senior level for other large agent-based organisations.
A further improving our operating new non-executive director John Lorimer will, subject to shareholder approval, performance.
be appointed at the annual general meeting AGM.
One of our non-executive directors, Ray Miles will be standing down at the AGM after long service with us and, prior to the demerger, with Provident Financial.
He has made a significant contribution to the development of the business and we extend our warmest thanks to him.
With effect from the AGM he will be replaced as senior independent director by Tony Hales.
I am delighted that Charles Gregson has agreed to extend his term for a further year to ensure that there is continuity whilst the new directors establish themselves in their new roles and so the Company can benefit from his long experience and knowledge of the business.
However, during this further term from 30 June 2010 he will no longer be regarded as an independent non-executive director.
Looking forward 2010 is a year in which we will be focused on re-energising our existing business and further improving our operating performance.
We are already seeing benefits from the use of branch level credit controls and a new process for measuring and managing branch profitability.
This contributed significantly to our ability to recover rapidly from the impact of the recession.
There is more to come from these new techniques and an important event for 2010 will be a large-scale test of hand-held technology for agents and development managers in the Hungarian market.
Our committed bank facilities are sufficient to fund the growth of the business through to their expiry in October 2011, but we plan to secure medium-term funding for our business plan during 2010.
The economies in which we operate are returning to growth and, whilst uncertainty remains as to the strength of the global recovery, we expect conditions in 2010 to be more favourable than in 2009.
We ended the year with good credit quality and improving performance and we are well placed to carry this forward into 2010.
Christopher Rodrigues Non-Executive Chairman www.
