International Public Partnerships Limited Chairmans Statement In this my fourth annual report to shareholders, I am pleased to report that the year to 31 December 2009 was another successful year for International Public Partnerships Limited.
At the start of the year, the combination of the global financial crisis and the uncertainties surrounding the parent company of the investment manager Babcock & Brown had combined to impact the share price of the Company.
Your Board spent a considerable amount of time reviewing all options available and the solution recommended by your Board was accepted by you in June 2009 and by the end of the year the Companys share price stood close to its highest level since listing and had materially exceeded benchmarks.
Over the year the Companys share price increased by 45% and outperformed the FTSE All Share index by 20.5% and was stable against the FTSE 250 index.
The major initiative recommended by the Directors and accepted by the shareholders in June 2009 was the novation of the investment advisory agreement from Babcock & Brown to Amber Fund Management Limited AFML.
AFML is owned by the senior staff who had previously provided services to the Company through their previous employer Babcock & Brown.
The novation provided full continuity in all aspects of the Companys operations and we have been very pleased with the smooth transition of responsibilities and the performance of the new investment manager.
Other notable events in the year included: an increase in the distribution to investors over the previous year: completion of the construction work and commencement of the operational phases at the delivery of Durham Regional Courthouse in Ontario, Canada and Dublin Central Criminal Courts in Ireland: acquisition of additional equity in the Brescia Hospital and Diabolo Rail projects: the award of new rail concessions to BeNEX, the rail operating concession holder in which the Company has a 49% interest: successful placing of the residual 8.3% stake in the Company previously held by Babcock & Brown with both new and existing investors: the appointment of Mr John Whittle, an independent Non Executive Director, as the fifth Board member: the appointment of Numis Securities as broker to the Company: the change of Company name in June 2009 to International Public Partnerships Limited INPP : the revaluation of Australian minority held assets resulting in a 12.9 million impairment charge to the Income Statement: the launch of a secondary capital raising which was subsequently completed in January 2010 raising 89m of additional capital for the Company.
During the period the Companys portfolio of 50 PPP PFI assets continued to perform in line with expectations and cashflow arising from these investments was in line with forecasts.
In the second half of 2009, the Company acquired additional equity in Brescia Hospital, the Diabolo Rail project and new rail concessions were awarded to BeNEX.
Each of these transactions had the effect of increasing the projected overall returns to investors in the Company.
In addition, the Company completed the construction of the Durham Courthouse in Oshawa, Ontario, Canada and the new Central Criminal Courts in Dublin, Ireland, both of which are now operational.
I was very pleased to be able to welcome a number of our investors and analysts to a successful Investor Day held at the Dublin Courts in November 2009.
The Courts provided striking evidence of the ability of the Company and its managers to work closely with the end users to create a superior and economical solution to a defined need.
During the course of the day, presentations were made by AFML, Royal Bank of Scotland, the Dublin procurement agency and PJ Hegarty our Construction partner.
Our ability to transform a brownfield site on the edge of Phoenix Park to a superior and functional court complex fully evidenced the fact that INPP and its advisor work in true partnership with all interested parties to ensure that end users receive a high quality asset on time and on budget.
7 International Public Partnerships Limited Chairmans Statement continued Distributions Despite the difficulties which have been affecting global markets, I am pleased to report that the portfolio performed in line with forecast and the Board has confirmed that it will pay a distribution for the second half of 2009 of 2.775 pence per share total distribution for 2009: 5.55 pence per share.
This is in line with our previously announced increased annual distribution and fully evidences the non-correlated performance which our portfolio produces.
The dividend will be paid in May 2010, and, as in previous periods, the cash from which the distribution will be paid has been generated entirely from operating cash flow.
The Board is also pleased to advise a third consecutive annual increase in its target annual distributions.
For 2010, it is the Boards intention to target a total distribution of 5.70 pence per share, which represents a near 3% increase over the previous year.
The first payment of 2.85 pence per share in respect of this target is expected to be made in October 2010.
The second payment is expected to be made in May 2011.
Shareholders recently approved amendments to the Company's Articles that will enable the Directors to offer a scrip dividend option.
The Company intends to offer this option in respect of the May 2010 distribution as well as in respect of future distributions, subject to the Directors being satisfied that this is in the best interests of the Company at the relevant time.
Applications for participation in the scrip dividend option will be sent to all investors in April 2010.
The Company continues to operate a progressive distribution policy and the fact that the Companys portfolio consists of long term government-backed contracts enables confidence in our cash flows for future years and our aim is to continue to grow the distribution in 2011 and beyond.
Financial results In this Annual Report the Company is reporting a Net Asset Value NAV of 420.2million as defined in the Summary section, net assets on an IFRS basis of 331.2 million and a profit before tax for the year of 11.4 million.
As the Company reports on an IFRS basis the Companys profit and loss account is impacted by non-cash, as well as cash items.
On a cash basis, cash received from the portfolio of investments i. e. the underlying PFI PPP concessions produced a net investment cashflow to the Company of 5.7 million.
The Companys overall cash balance at 31 March 2010, net of the money earmarked for the distribution due in May 2010 and after the repayment of the corporate debt facility, is 58.7m as at 31 December 2009 this was 30m and is available for future investment.
This takes into account the capital raising of 89.3 million completed in January 2010.
Gearing Net Company debt, excluding intercompany loans, at 31 December 2009 was 21m, representing gearing of 5%, however this was repaid in full in February 2010 from the proceeds of the equity capital raising and the Company now has no external debt at the Company level.
It is the expectation of the Board only to use Company level debt to bridge finance new investment acquisitions in between future equity capital raisings.
Corporate Governance The appointment of Mr John Whittle to the Board in August 2009 further strengthened the Boards financial acumen.
John is an FCA with substantial experience in both the corporate and investment fund sectors and his experience and knowledge has further enhanced the Boards existing skill base.
The Board now consists of five Directors, four of whom are Guernsey based non-executives.
John is also a member of the Audit Committee.
The past year has been particularly demanding and I would like to take this opportunity to publicly thank my fellow Directors for the considerable amount of time and effort they gave to the Company during the period when the future was unclear.
It was their effort, knowledge and support that culminated in the successful novation of the Investment Advisory Agreement.
I must also publicly thank all of the Amber staff previously employed by Babcock & Brown who continued to provide a superior level of service in the management of the Groups portfolio.
As a Board, we kept 8 International Public Partnerships Limited Chairmans Statement continued in close contact with them, always aware that their future was by no means secure, but their dedication, skill, professionalism and commitment ensured that there was no change or deterioration in the level of service.
The staff are now employed by Amber and I am very pleased to report that we continue, as a Board, to work in close partnership with them all.
The board continues to expend considerable time on matters of corporate governance, we aim to be compliant with all relevant aspects of the AIC code.
The Board regularly reviews what is best practice among investment companies and is keeping a watching brief on any likely consequences for the Company arising out of the proposed European Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive.
Investment Strategy The investment strategy of the Company is unchanged and the strong cash position, along with the undrawn credit facility, means that the Company begins 2010 well placed to capitalise on further investment opportunities.
It is your Boards view that the interests of investors are best served if the Company ensures continuing diversification in its investments both by sector and geographic split.
29% of the portfolio remains under construction, which provides future capital growth potential, while 71% is now operational and providing steady income to investors.
More than 78% of the portfolio is majority-owned ensuring strong control over project operations and therefore returns.
The Company will continue to target investments in the public infrastructure sector including those in the health, education, government office and transport sectors in regions including the U. K. Europe, Canada and Australia.
We expect most new opportunities to have the same, or largely similar, characteristics to the existing portfolio, including: long term direct or indirect government backed cash flows, typically for 25-30 years: revenues which are either fixed or index-linked: strong influence over project operations: and secure debt financing in place with interest rate risk hedged.
While to date the majority of investment opportunities have been developed by associates of the Investment Advisor or its predecessor, the Investment Advisor is currently also in discussions with a number of third party vendors of assets.
The events of the last 18 months have seen liquidity pressures on both buyers and sellers such that competition for assets has reduced and it is now possible to identify quality third party assets which fully comply with our Investment strategy and which will also provide significant accretive returns over an extended period.
The combination of these and the other opportunities currently being developed within the Amber group should provide an excellent opportunity to increase the size of the Companys portfolio at attractive rates of return and with increasing economies of scale.
I look forward to updating investors on the development of these opportunities and the benefits which can accrue to our shareholders.
Outlook We believe the long-term outlook for PPP PFI investment both in the U. K. and overseas remains solid.
Governments around the world are continuing to require new infrastructure projects to be delivered and the majority of countries are encouraging the use of private sector investment to fund these.
Despite potential public spending cuts in the U. K. core public services such as health, education and transport will always require ongoing capital and privately-financed solutions and the Group is well placed and qualified to meet this need.
From an investor perspective, with interest rates remaining low, the ability of the Company to provide consistent non correlated returns to investors at or ahead of current levels should remain attractive and this, coupled with what appear to be significant and accretive market opportunities, will ensure the continued development of your Company.
9 International Public Partnerships Limited Chairmans Statement continued The combination of current market conditions, the completion of several significant initiatives and the opportunities we see before us indicate to me the potential for another successful year ahead for the Company and I look forward to updating investors on developments throughout the period.
