C Ch ha aiir rma man ns s sSt ta att ee me me n n tt A successful year with revenue and earnings showing resilience The Company has reacted well to these challenges, scaling back the business where appropriate, but continuing to pursue growth opportunities Results and Dividend The BSS Group BSS or the Group has faced challenging trading conditions Profit before tax for the financial year ended 31 March 2009 decreased by 0.9% to 57.8m throughout the financial year with a number of our principal markets contracting in reaction to 2008: 58.3m, after charging exceptional the financial crisis followed by the impact of the costs of 1.2m 2008: 0.4m and amortisation recession in the wider economy.
The Company of intangibles of 2.5m 2008: 1.6m, on has reacted well to these challenges, scaling revenue of 1,340.6m 2008: 1,289.0m, an back the business where appropriate, but increase of 4.0%.
continuing to pursue growth opportunities.
Earnings per share was in line with the prior I am pleased to report that we have had a year at 33.3p 2008: 33.3p and the Board, in successful year with revenue and earnings recognition of the resilient earnings showing resilience and underlying growth performance, proposes to maintain the final despite the adverse economic environment.
dividend at 5.54p per share 2008: 5.54p with The Group continues to benefit from being a total dividend of 7.43p per share, in line with conservatively financed with net debt reduced last year.
to 86m 2008: 104m and new borrowing facilities were put in place to provide secure Strong cash performance is reflected in free funding of 162m for the next three years.
cash flow of 27.9m 2008: 30.7m : after capital investment of 15.4m 2008: 15.6m Demand for our product is primarily driven in new branches, infrastructure and systems by repair and maintenance R & M activity, that have enhanced growth potential.
much of which is considered essential.
We expect the continuing recession will impact Operating Performance on our core markets in 2009 10, as funding Both the Industrial and Domestic Divisions have becomes tighter in both the public and private delivered organic revenue growth of 3.9% and sectors.
The Group continues to win new 3.3% respectively, increasing market share in contracts and has identified new growth tighter markets.
opportunities that are being pursued.
We believe that BSS remains well placed to The Industrial Division has had another strong trade through recessionary markets and to year with growth in revenue and operating profit take advantage of the economic recovery but increasing to record levels.
The Division has we expect a tougher year ahead.
benefited from investment in infrastructure, stock and people and its enhanced competitive position has been applied to good effect.
Exceptional charges comprise redundancy costs of 1.2m 2008: 0.4m comprising redundancy cost 1.2m offset by 0.8m of income from compulsory purchases.
2 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Peter Warry, Chairman successful replacement of B & Hs trading, Board.
Individual incidents are investigated and Improved service and product availability, supported from 63 branches and specialist operating and financial systems.
We remain lessons learned documented and discussed at sales teams, has resulted in increased sales to confident that B & H continues to provide each Board meeting.
Our aim continues to be existing and new customers.
The Division excellent long term value for our shareholders.
to eliminate all lost time accidents and to continues to successfully support projects to ensure that the workplace is safe for all our refurbish existing and build new schools, With effect from 1 April 2009, the wholesale employees with the emphasis on awareness hospitals and prisons as well as support core businesses of Price Tools and Birchwood and prevention.
We continue to strive to customers maintaining manufacturing and Products were merged to form one company: achieve our objective.
New adjacent markets Birchwood Price Tools BPT.
The combined have been identified that are being developed business provides a stronger product offer to Outlook that will provide new sources of revenue and our customers with greater geographic sales The Group anticipates that calendar year 2009 growth.
The Specialist Division will be a year of slowing demand.
Although a continues to offer good growth potential large element of the Groups revenue is directly The Domestic Division has absorbed the despite a recessionary market.
related to repair and maintenance activity, impact of a sharp slowdown in residential new much of which is essential, the tightening of build activity, which cost in excess of 35m in People company budgets and uncertainty in the jobs revenue, but also a tightening of its core R & M As economic outlook has deteriorated, there market has had a negative impact on core market.
The Division has continued to expand has been a need to reduce the number of demand in the Domestic, Industrial and and grow revenue and share of the R & M people employed in the Group to match the Specialist Divisions.
It is anticipated that this market with 30 new branches opened in the requirements of a contracting market.
Wherever reduction will be partly offset by major contract financial year taking the PTS branch network possible employees have been re-deployed wins relating to fully funded projects and a up to 307 branches.
New growth opportunities and staff numbers reduced through natural number of growth initiatives.
are being pursued with the opening of our first wastage in order to avoid compulsory dedicated renewables branch and the redundancies.
We are grateful for the support The Board remain confident that the Group acquisition of Direct Heating Spares Limited and understanding shown.
can outperform the market but we expect DHS in April 2009 to enhance our offering of revenue and earnings to be lower in 2009 10 spare parts.
The F & P Wholesale F & P In the last year, there have been no changes than the prior year and have planned on this business has enjoyed a successful year: its to the Board or the Executive Committee basis.
The Company continues to keep close to business model is to provide next day delivery that manages the Group.
This continuity has its customers and the marketplace and from stock to the independent merchant sector helped the business navigate through more continues to pursue new opportunities.
and this proposition has strengthened as credit challenging times, and has enabled the Economic recovery is anticipated in 2010: the availability has tightened in the wider market.
Company to remain close to its customers Group is conservatively financed and is well and suppliers in a changing and uncertain positioned to take advantage of that upturn.
Within the Specialist Division, Buck & Hickman marketplace.
The experience, knowledge B & H has increased profitability despite and skills of all our employees continues to be tighter maintenance, repair and overhaul a crucial element in the success of the Group.
markets MRO as end user customers have I take this opportunity to thank all our cut back orders in recessionary markets.
employees for their hard work and dedication Peter Warry Further improvements have been made in throughout a challenging year.
Chairman operating efficiency and procurement and the 27 May 2009 second stage of the recovery plan was The health and safety of our employees completed in December 2008 with the continues to be of great importance to the The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 3
