American pp01 18 11 3 10 9:34 am Page 2 Chairmans Statement Investment Performance Investors in US equities enjoyed a rollercoaster ride during 2009, with the rise in the S&P 500 Index of 26.0%, in Dollar terms, over the course of the year, disguising the dramatic fall and subsequent rebound that took place.
Hampered by the strength of Sterling, your Company produced a total return on net assets, in Sterling terms, of 11.6% for the year to 31st December 2009, marginally underperforming the Sterling total return of the S&P 500 Index our benchmark of 12.2%.
The Companys total return to shareholders was stronger, at 13.5%.
Over the longer term, as can be seen from charts and the data on pages 1, 10 and 11 the Companys record is strong, particularly since 2002.
The Dollar, having begun 2009 at a rate of 1.44 to the pound, weakened over the year, ending at 1.61.
This Sterling strength has meant that UK based investors saw their returns reduced by around 11.0%.
In order to protect against currency fluctuations in respect of the Companys existing 50 million debenture, a currency hedge was put in place on 3rd October, 2001 at a $ rate of 1.46.
The Companys net asset value in Sterling total return terms thus underperformed its benchmark index by 0.6 percentage points over the year.
Performance attribution data shows that the larger companies portfolio underperformed by 2.7%, with the smaller companies portfolio outperforming by 0.6% along with a positive contribution from gearing and the currency hedge for full details of the performance attribution see page 6.
The investment management team has continued its policy of investing in larger, blue chip growth companies on attractive valuations.
Full details of the activities of the investment managers are set out in their report on pages 5 to 8.
Revenue Account and Dividends Net revenue after taxation for the year was 4,540,000 2008: 4,853,000 and earnings per share were 10.63p 2008: 11.36p.
Revenue stood up well in what was a difficult year for dividend paying companies, with the Managers underweight position in financial services proving particularly provident.
The Companys dividend policy has been to distribute all, or substantially all, of the available income in each year.
Despite the modest decline in earnings, the Board is proposing to maintain last years dividend of 11.0p per share and, in doing so, will be drawing around 160,000 from revenue reserves.
Shareholders should note that income streams can vary significantly, and the Companys dividend payouts are likely to reflect those variations.
After accounting for the payment of the proposed final dividend, this leaves a balance in revenue reserves of 10.0m equivalent to 23.4p per share or 2.1 times our current payout.
The dividend will be paid on 6th May 2010 to shareholders on the register on 9th April 2010.
Gearing The Board of Directors sets the overall gearing strategy and guidelines and reviews these at each meeting.
The investment management team manages the gearing levels actively within these agreed guidelines.
At present, there is an upper limit of 20% of shareholders funds and this can only be increased with Board consent.
The 50 million debenture provides the potential to gear up to around 17%.
As at the year end, the Companys net gearing level offsetting cash and near cash against our debenture was 111% of shareholders funds, having ranged between 107% and 113% during the year.
2 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 American pp01 18 11 3 10 11:53 am Page 3 Management of the Discount The Companys discount based on the NAV with debt at fair value and excluding income narrowed by 0.6 percentage points over the course of the year, finishing at 3.3%.
During the year the shares traded between a 5.0% discount and a 8.5% premium.
Whilst the Company did not repurchase any shares during the year, your Board believes that such a facility is an important tool in the management of discount volatility.
A resolution to renew the authority to allow the Company to repurchase up to 14.99% of its share capital will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
Investment Manager The Companys objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth from a broad portfolio of North American investments.
Your Board has once again thoroughly reviewed the capabilities of the Investment Manager in order to assess whether J. P. Morgan Asset Management remains the most appropriate manager of the Companys assets.
In addition to scheduled Board Meetings, your Directors have undertaken additional strategy and investment meetings with the named investment managers, conducted comparisons with the peer group both in the UK and the US with regard to performance, fee rates and costs of management and spent time reviewing the investment management operation whilst in New York for a Board Meeting.
We have concluded that the ongoing appointment of the existing Investment Manager is in the best interests of shareholders.
The Board Your Board has put in place procedures to ensure that the Company complies fully with the revised Combined Code and the AIC Code on Corporate Governance.
Details are given in the Corporate Governance section of this report on pages 25 to 29.
Three Directors are seeking re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Directors retiring by rotation are James Fox and James Williams, who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, I, having served as a Director for over nine years, also retire and offer myself for re-election.
James Fox, who was appointed in 2003, performs the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee extremely efficiently and James Williams, who was also appointed in 2003, contributes significantly on a wide range of issues.
Details of their background and experience can be found on page 18 and the Board recommends their re-election.
The Board does not believe that length of service in itself should disqualify a director from seeking re-election and, in proposing my own re-election, it has taken into account the ongoing requirements of the Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
The Nomination Committee has carefully reviewed my performance as Chairman and the merits of my continued Chairmanship and recommends my re-election.
Annual General Meeting Your Directors and I very much look forward to welcoming shareholders to the Annual General Meeting, which will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Wednesday 5th May 2010 at 2.30 p. m. Garrett Fish, our lead investment manager, will make a presentation to shareholders, reviewing the year and commenting on the outlook for the current year.
It would be helpful if shareholders could submit, in advance and in writing, any detailed or technical questions that they wish to raise at the Annual General Meeting, to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London, EC2Y 9AQ.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 3 American pp01 18 11 3 10 9:34 am Page 4 Chairmans Statement continued Outlook The economic recovery in the US is evident in both GDP data and the robust earnings recovery seen from many of the companies in the investment portfolio.
Whether this recovery is in a nascent phase that will not be fully realised is a question which is exercising policy makers in America and beyond.
The investment management team remains fully invested but has recently reduced the gearing levels employed by the Company.
Hamish Buchan Chairman 11th March 2010 4 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
