Chairmans Statement Performance I am pleased to be able to report a much improved performance in 2009 both in absolute and relative terms.
The Companys net assets on an undiluted basis increased by 43.2% in the year, a 1.9 percentage point out-performance against our benchmark index.
The Companys return to ordinary shareholders for the year was 41.2%.
In what was another extremely volatile year for equity markets, to have delivered positive and index beating results represents a very commendable performance by our investment managers.
As detailed below, the Company issued Subscription shares during the year and, since the Companys net asset value per share is higher than the initial 137p per share exercise price, there is a dilutive impact on the Companys total return on net assets.
Accordingly, the diluted return on net assets over the period was 34.8%.
The Board believes, however, that the Managers performance should be judged by reference to the undiluted returns generated, as being more fairly reflective of the performance of the Companys portfolio of investments.
Subscription Share Issue At the Companys General Meeting held on 4th February 2009, shareholders approved a bonus issue of Subscription shares to qualifying shareholders on the basis of one Subscription share for every five Ordinary shares held.
Each Subscription share confers the right but not the obligation to subscribe for one Ordinary share at predetermined prices on any business day during the period from 1st April 2009 until 31st March 2014, after which the rights on the Subscription shares will lapse.
Between 1st April 2009 and 30th September 2009, applications were received to convert 452,920 Subscription shares into Ordinary shares, raising proceeds of 621,000.
As at the date of this report, a further 2,042,034 Subscription shares have been converted, meaning that a total of 3,418,000 has been raised for investment by the Company.
At the time of writing, the Companys Ordinary share price is 189.4p, comfortably above the initial exercise price of 137p per Subscription share.
The Subscription shares, which are separately quoted, are currently priced at 50.8p per share, which equates to a further 10p of value per Ordinary share for shareholders who qualified for the bonus issue.
Shareholders should note that the initial exercise price of 137p per Subscription share will increase to 176p per share with effect from 1st April 2010.
We will be sending a reminder to shareholders in February 2010 about the increase in the exercise price.
Further details on the Subscription shares, including their exercise prices, the apportionments for capital gains tax purposes and how they may be exercised, can be found on the Companys website at www.
co. uk and on page 66 of this Report.
2 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Revenue and Dividends Revenue per share for the year amounted to 1.55p on an undiluted basis and the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 1.50p which, if approved by shareholders, will be payable on 12th February 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8th January 2010.
Discount The Board continues closely to monitor the level of discount at which the Companys Ordinary shares trade to net asset value.
Although no shares were bought back during the year, it is important that the Company retain the ability to be able to repurchase its shares and, accordingly, resolutions to renew the authority to repurchase Ordinary shares and Subscription shares will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Manager The Board has carried out its formal annual review of the investment management, company secretarial and marketing services provided to the Company by JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
This year the Board paid particular attention to the Managers investment process and approach.
The investment management team has been in place since mid-2006 and, as previously reported, adopts a high conviction approach to stock picking that focuses the portfolio on companies they rate highly, regardless of their current benchmark weighting.
The impact of this approach is likely to result in increased volatility and greater deviation in returns against our benchmark index.
Your Board fully supports the investment management team and their investment approach and looks forward to continued good performance.
Accordingly, and after full consideration, the Board has concluded that the continued appointment of JPMAM on the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Performance Fee Although the Companys undiluted NAV total return outperformed the benchmark index by 1.9%, there is no performance fee payable for the year ended 30th September 2009.
A carried forward negative balance of 1.4m has to be covered by future out-performance before any further performance fee can be accrued or paid to the Manager.
Borrowing Facilities The Company has a 25 million five year multi-currency loan facility with Lloyds TSB, which expires in May 2011.
In August the Board was also able to renegotiate the Companys 20 million, 364 day multi-currency facility with ING Bank.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 3 Chairmans Statement continued The Board James Strachan was appointed to the Board on 10th August 2009.
After reading Economics and English at Cambridge, he worked in the City both as a commercial and investment banker.
Initially with Chase Manhattan, he then spent 13 years at Merrill Lynch, latterly as a Managing Director in London and a Board member of Merrill Lynch International.
Mr Strachan is currently a non-executive Director of the Financial Services Authority, Legal and General plc, Welsh Water Limited, Care UK plc, Sarasin and Partners LLP and Social Finance Limited.
He is also a Visiting Fellow at the LSE risk and regulation and a Vice President of RNID.
Until 2006, he was Chairman of the Audit Commission, the public services regulator and watchdog, and he served as a Director of the Bank of England until May 2009.
Shareholders, will have a chance to meet him at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Articles of Association At the Annual General Meeting, it is proposed that the Company adopt new Articles of Association.
These latest amendments to the current Articles reflect the changes in company law brought about by the 2006 Act which came into effect on 1 October 2009, changes made to the 2006 Act in August 2009 designed principally to implement the EU Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK and some minor technical or clarifying changes.
More details on the proposed changes to the Articles are given in the Directors Report and in the Appendix to the Notice of Meeting on pages 59 to 62.
Annual General Meeting The forthcoming Annual General Meeting will again be held at The Salters Hall, 4 Fore Street, London EC2Y 5DE on Monday 1st February 2010 at 12.00 noon.
In addition to the formal proceedings, there will be a presentation by Joshua Tay, one of your investment managers, who will also be available to respond to questions on the Companys portfolio, investment strategy and the outlook for Asia generally.
Following the Meeting there will be an opportunity for shareholders to meet the Board and the investment manager over a buffet lunch and I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible.
Outlook Low interest rates, a reasonably benign oil price and a weak US dollar should continue to provide a favourable environment for Asian stock markets.
Questions remain, however, about when interest rates will start to rise and a W-shaped recovery in 2010 remains a possibility.
Nevertheless, Asias superior growth prospects and robust secular earnings trends should be reflected in the performance of Asian equities relative to other stock markets around the world.
J Ja am me es s M M L Lo on ng g Chairman 15th December 2009 4 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
