Chairmans Statement The year to end June 2009 was probably the most dramatic period in financial markets that most of us can remember.
I am therefore pleased, almost relieved, to report that we came through it in reasonable shape with the net asset value NAV total return down 13.3%, more or less in line with our benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Free Index in sterling terms.
The share price over the year fell from 433p to 374p producing a total return to shareholders of 13.1%.
I say relieved, since at one point our NAV touched 257.1p some 45% below the figure it was on 1st July 2008 and some 53% below its peak of 549p in December 2007.
In these circumstances it is difficult to find the firm ground to make good investments and indeed our stock selection has not been as good as we would have liked.
However, the Manager was quickly aware of the problem and strengthened his team accordingly.
Despite such volatile markets the discount of our share price to NAV has averaged 6.2% as compared to 9.8% last year and peaked at 14.5%.
The Board monitored the situation carefully against our clear discount policy but at no time did we consider it necessary to buy back shares.
It is often difficult to explain the movements in the level of discount but I would hope that the discount levels that we are now seeing are to some extent a measure of how well your Company is perceived by the market.
Also, turnover in the Companys shares is now on average double what it was 5 years ago, which again I believe leads to somewhat lower discounts.
Last year in my report I said that we were entering a period of massive upheaval but that I was confident that the fundamentals for continued growth in emerging markets would remain in place.
Therefore in May with the market beginning to show signs of a recovery the Board took the decision to propose to shareholders a 1 for 5 issue of subscription shares.
This was agreed at a general meeting on 10th June 2009 with 99.7% of votes cast in favour.
On 30th June 2009 the subscription shares were priced at 39.5p, which equates to an additional 7.9p or 2.1% return per ordinary share.
As in previous years the dividend we are proposing of 3.20p per share 2008: 2.00p is set by our policy of maximising capital growth and this is a figure which is more or less the minimum we can pay and maintain our status as an investment trust.
Subject to shareholders approval at the AGM this will be paid on 6th November 2009 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 9th October 2009.
With the failure of governance at many large financial institutions it is important for me to assure you that this is a subject at the top of our agenda.
We comply fully with the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance.
Moreover, I should add that we do not see this as a box ticking exercise but we endeavour to kick the tyres and question the Manager rigorously on performance and strategy.
The Board was particularly aware of the contagion of investment and operational risk during the height of the financial crisis, although we were of course fortunate in the overall strength of JPMorgan as our Manager.
Going 2 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 forward we are planning to work with the Manager in reviewing the way we evaluate risk to see if we can better understand the risks we clearly must run if we are to continue to deliver out performance.
As in previous years we have also carried out a formal review of the Manager, the Board as a whole and separately the Board evaluated my role as Chairman.
I am pleased to report that no major concerns were raised and the Board firmly believes that the reappointment of the Manager is in the best interests of the Company.
As a Board we have also tried to manage our own succession planning, and following the appointment during the year of Nigel Kenny and Percy Mistry as Directors, Val Powell and I will be retiring at the AGM.
This will bring the Board numbers down to our normal level of five.
It has been agreed that Alan Saunders will take over as Chairman, David Gamble will become the Senior Independent Director and that Nigel Kenny will become the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Val Powell joined our Board following the merger with F&C Emerging Markets Investment Trust in 2006 and has brought to bear his considerable City knowledge in all our discussions.
I would like to thank him for his positive contributions and personal support.
Where then is your Company heading over the next few years?
We have of course seen a considerable bounce in emerging markets share prices over the last six months, driven by the general perception that the worst is over in the USA and Europe and by the internally generated boost from China.
Therefore whilst some consolidation might be expected over the remainder of the year I remain of the belief that emerging markets will continue to grow strongly in the medium and longer term.
Finally, may I thank my fellow Directors for their support and for JPMorgan Asset Management for their professionalism in delivering outstanding performance.
It has been a privilege to be your Chairman for the last six years and I am confident that your Company will continue to outperform in the years ahead.
Roy Reynolds Chairman 30th September 2009 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
