Chairmans Statement Performance The turbulent conditions in the financial markets which began in 2008, deepened and gathered momentum in 2009 providing an exceptionally testing environment for our Investment Managers.
Reflecting the decline in the value of small cap companies in Europe, the value of the Company has suffered a significant decline in absolute terms, however the Investment Managers achievement of a return of 9.8% ahead of the benchmark demonstrates their considerable investment skills and is of some comfort to shareholders.
Over the year the Companys total return on net assets i. e. with net income reinvested was -28.9%, which compares with a return of -38.7% on the same basis from the Companys benchmark, the HSBC Smaller European Companies ex UK Index in sterling terms.
It is important also to set the current year in the context of longer term performance.
Over the three, five and ten year periods to 31st March 2009, our Investment Managers have outperformed their benchmark in asset growth by aggregate amounts of 12%, 55% and 143% respectively, an outstanding long term track record.
More details of the longer term performance are set out on page 1.
Along with many companies in the sector and reflecting the market conditions, the Companys shares continued to trade on a wide discount to asset value.
The discount to net asset value based on the assumption that the shares held in Treasury had been reissued in accordance with the Boards current policy on the reissuance of Treasury shares widened from 15.4% to 19.5%.
This resulted in a total return to shareholders of -32.4%.
The average daily discount during the year was 16.5%.
Reducing this discount and its volatility continues to be one of the Companys challenges.
The Companys total return for the year can be analysed by looking at the performance attribution analysis set out in the table on page 5.
This shows that stock selection and the decisions to hold cash or gear the portfolio were positive contributors, whilst asset allocation was neutral.
Treasury Shares At the previous four Annual General Meetings shareholders have approved a resolution to enable the Company to sell shares from Treasury at a discount to net asset value.
Your Board continues to believe that there are benefits in having the ability to reissue, rather than cancel, shares bought in the market.
Its use can improve liquidity in the Companys shares, help manage any imbalance between the supply and demand, reduce the volatility and absolute levels of the discount and enhance the net asset value by selling shares at a narrower discount than that at which they were purchased.
During the year under review, your Board repurchased a total of 1,628,670 shares to be held in Treasury.
Given the difficult market conditions and wide discount at which the Companys shares traded during the year, no shares were reissued from Treasury during the year and on 18th March 2009, 2,579,875 shares previously held in Treasury were cancelled.
2 | JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Your Board is requesting that shareholders renew the authority for the reissue of Treasury shares at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting as it sees this as a useful tool to add value for shareholders should market conditions improve.
It is important to note that, as previously, the Board will maintain its policy of restricting the Companys ability to sell Treasury shares, by imposing a strict limit to the dilution associated with the sale at a discount to a maximum of 0.5% of net asset value in any one year.
Board and Manager Evaluation The Nomination Committee carried out its annual evaluation of the Board, its Committees, the individual Directors and the Chairman earlier this year.
The Board takes this review seriously and views it as an effective means of evaluating the continuing efficacy of the Board.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Paul Manduca and Michael Wrobel will retire by rotation at this years AGM.
Both Directors will offer themselves for re-election.
The Nomination Committee having considered their qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board and its committees, I confirm that both Directors continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment to the role and the Board recommends to shareholders that they be re-elected.
Having served as a Director for more than nine years, I must now stand for annual re-election, in accordance with corporate governance best practice.
In my absence, the Nomination Committee assessed my performance and determined that I should continue as Chairman.
A resolution proposing my re-election will therefore be put to the forthcoming AGM.
The Board also carried out a formal review of the Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM during the year.
This covered the investment management, company secretarial, administrative and marketing services provided to the Company by JPMAM and took into account their investment performance record, management processes, investment style, resources and risk control mechanisms.
The Board is fully satisfied with the performance of the Manager and concluded that its continued appointment on the existing terms is very much in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Corporate Governance The Company operates in accordance with corporate governance best practice and the Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance as applicable to investment trust companies.
Comprehensive information can be found in the Corporate Governance section of this Report on pages 25 to 28.
VAT Following the decision by the European Court of Justice in June 2007 that VAT should not be charged on investment trust companies management fees, the Company has now received reimbursement of VAT and interest totalling 3.3m.
JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 3 Chairmans Statement continued Annual General Meeting Your Directors and I very much look forward to welcoming you to the Companys AGM which will be held at The Armourers Hall, 81 Coleman Street, London EC2R 5BJ on Tuesday 7th July 2009 at 12.00 noon.
The Investment Managers will make a presentation reviewing the past year and commenting on the outlook for the current year.
As usual, the meeting will be followed by a buffet lunch, providing shareholders the opportunity to meet the Directors and the Investment Managers.
Please submit in writing, or via the Companys website, any detailed questions that you wish to raise at the AGM to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST are able to lodge their proxy votes electronically.
Outlook Our Investment Managers set out their views on the investment outlook on the next few pages.
Your Board supports their cautious optimism and reinstatement of the Companys gearing but remains alert to the continuing difficult economic environment and the possibility that these early signs of revival will not endure.
Your Board continues to have considerable confidence in our Investment Managers and their ability to outperform their asset class.
E Elliis sa ab be et th h A Aiir re ey y Chairman 1st June 2009 4 | JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
