Chairmans Statement This introductory statement is part of the Directors report which continues on page 41.
Performance I am sorry to report that, as a result of substantial underperformance this year, your Board has failed to achieve one of its foremost duties: to ensure that the net asset value of the Companys Growth portfolio out-performs its benchmark index over the long term: that is, over periods of 3 years and longer.
The net asset value of the Growth shares fell by 37.5% over the year under review after management expenses, compared with a fall of only 31.1% in its benchmark the FTSE World Europe Index ex UK, in sterling terms, with no management expenses.
This under-performance of 6.4%, following the under-performance of 4.0% last year, has dragged the relative performance of your Company over three and five years into negative territory: a very unhappy result.
I excused the underperformance of the Growth portfolio last year on the basis that one years results need not be of particular significance, since the goal is for out-performance over the long term and that there was then a healthy average annual out-performance over the previous three, five and ten years of 0.3%, 0.8% and 1.5%, respectively.
This is no longer the case.
While the out-performance of the Growth shares over ten years is still intact at an annual average of 0.9%, the recent five and three year periods now show under-performance of 1.6% and 3.4% per annum, respectively.
The performance of the Income portfolio has also been disappointing, although it is not yet old enough to have compiled a three year performance record.
Launched in August 2006, over its first eight months to the year ended 31st March 2007 its net asset value rose by 16.5% compared with the 15.7% rise in its benchmark, the MSCI Europe Index, in sterling terms: a positive relative performance of 0.8%.
But then relative performance plunged, its NAV under-performing the benchmark by 6.2% in 2008.
I wrote last year that it must now begin to move ahead smartly if it is to achieve a positive capital return after three years.
But it has fallen by a further 30.5% in 2009, exactly in line with the index.
Overall, the Income portfolio has underperformed its benchmark at the rate of 1.1% per annum over its first 32 months.
The fact that the credit crunch induced the worst economic scenario since the Great Depression, and torrid stock markets in which few, if any, long-only funds could make absolute returns, is an irrelevance.
The material fact is the disappointing performance of your Company relative to the market.
Your Company has no mandate to dodge the direction of equities by investing widely in other assets, although it can lessen or increase the impact by holding cash or introducing gearing an important factor which I turn to below.
Whatever the circumstances, your Company invests in European markets in the confident expectation that the long-run trend in their equity prices is upward and that the Managers skills will tilt the portfolio towards the out-performing stocks within those markets.
Your Board does not necessarily expect the Manager to produce positive relative results for shareholders each and every year.
But it does expect it to produce positive returns over rolling three year periods and longer.
If the Manager fails to meet that expectation your Board has the obligation to consider seriously whether their re-appointment is in the best interests of shareholders.
JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 5 T H E C O M P A N Y Chairmans Statement continued The Investment Process In my statement last year I reported that the stock-picking system used by the Managers to identify best-of-value and best-of-growth shares had resulted in sudden and significant under-performance when the credit crunch hit, causing as it did sudden and extreme loss of confidence in all financial markets.
I noted that since the process has shown divergence at previous climacterics periods pertaining to or constituting a critical period in human life your Board has instituted a review of the investment process to see if lessons can be learned.
The continuing impact of the credit crunch through 2008 and in particular in the weeks following the collapse of Lehman Brothers, over the week-end of September 13th 14th, made the year an ideal laboratory for conducting this review.
The factors that undermined performance in 2007 8 were exactly the factors that undermined performance in 2008 9.
These factors were that the proxies used by the process to identify growth and value shares have not shown themselves to be indicators of positive share price performance when market confidence is at a low ebb and near panic ensues.
The review examined the performance over the last twenty years of the top quintile of growth and value shares that are specifically sought out by the process.
The growth proxy positive individual share price momentum in relation to the market, catalysing purchase when confirmed by upward earnings estimates from investment analysts indeed identified companies which proceeded to out-perform.
The value proxy a low multiple of price to earnings indeed identified companies which provided stability to the portfolio when markets were choppy, while not stifling performance when growth shares were exuberant.
But in abnormally severe downturns these proxies no longer applied.
At major downward-turning points as in 1998, at several points during the 2000-2003 bear market, and in 2008 the value shares abandoned their role as portfolio stabilisers and fell further than the market, as did their growth associates.
The Investment Managers Report on page 12 fully explains all the factors that undermined performance this year.
The matter for your Board has been to re-justify its confidence in the stock selection process so that it can confidently, and in your best interests, re-appoint the Manager.
In more detail, our review has revealed that, over the last twenty years at least, the process of selecting shares from the top quintile of growth and value shares has out-performed by an average of 2.0% in two thirds of the 229 months since the end of 1989: and that, in fewer than one third of those months, over the same time frame, has under-performed by the average lesser amount of 1.7%.
This is positive evidence that the process should produce out-performance in the long run.
But the review also showed that the results are volatile over short periods.
While the number of outperforming months was two thirds of the total over the whole twenty year period, there was significant inconsistency over rolling twelve month periods.
In one year the out-performance was in every month of the year but in four of the years out-performance was only achieved one third of the time.
The consistency of the process thus varied widely between 100% and 33%.
And 2008 was one of the four years when success was at the very bottom of the range.
Perhaps we can be encouraged by the fact that there were strong recoveries in relative performance following the previous years when the process failed two-thirds of the time and that there has indeed been a strong recovery in relative performance in recent months.
6 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 T H E C O M P A N Y Your Board has concluded that this evidence is sufficiently robust to justify confidence in the long run success of the process.
Importantly, your Board was also encouraged to note that the Manager is constantly testing the continuing validity of the proxies for value and growth and is constantly looking for, and back-testing, potential alternatives.
It is a frequently-observed phenomenon that static systems lose their validity almost from the moment that they become accepted.
So your Board was relieved to note that the process is dynamic: it will keep itself updated in this regard.
The specific purpose of the review was to extract useful lessons and to implement them for the future benefit of our shareholders.
The Board is exploring two main lessons.
The first is that the main proxy used for growth positive share price momentum relative to the market may correlate more closely with short-term movements in stock prices rather than with the fundamental economics of a business that should drive long-term outperformance.
The process selects upward earnings revisions by analysts as the catalyst for buying shares with positive price momentum rather than earnings growth itself.
Perhaps expectation is more influential than reality in the short-term, but in the long-run actual earnings growth must be the decisive factor.
This suggests that the time-measure for success is essentially short-term and that success in the long term depends upon consistently stitching together the series of short term successes.
Price momentum and false expectations can lead to excessive valuations, so the value proxy is crucial.
To the extent that the process is a following strategy, using the rear-view mirror, it must inevitably be behind the curve at major and sudden turning points, lagging the market especially in periods of panic.
Only human analysis and judgement can exercise foresight and there is a danger that the existence of a strong process may inhibit this.
Following the review, your Board urged the Manager to encourage individual insights, particularly at times of potential exuberance or despair.
Secondly, over-confidence that the process assures long term out-performance might encourage the Investment Managers to remain fully invested and geared at all times.
In a previous statement I have myself noted that investors only had to be out of equities for the 50 most critical months out of the then-720 months since the end of the second world war for the annualised rate of return to fall below 5%, compared with the return of 14% for those who remained fully invested at all times.
But the regular appearance of bear markets suggests that a process, to be rigorous and consistently useful, should be for all seasons and especially for ones of such severity that they threaten to undo years of out-performance.
Although many politicians, bankers and commentators have noted how unforeseeable was the credit crunch they would, wouldnt they?
some might say it was flagged for more than a year before the full consequences hit.
It is not only with the benefit of hindsight, therefore, to regret that the Investment Managers discretion to move into cash was not exploited.
The dark clouds were scrutinised at Board meetings and I apologise to shareholders for not steering those conversations more forcefully.
In previous years the Investment Managers tactical deployment of gearing has been highly effective.
This year, as a consequence of positive price momentum in the first half of the year, historically-low valuations and encouraging sentiment indicators, gearing was increased to 110% over the summer months, just before the market crash, exacerbating the under-performance of top-quintile growth and value shares when JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 7 T H E C O M P A N Y Chairmans Statement continued the crash came.
The difference between being 10% in cash or 10% geared is 2 percentage points in relative performance for every 10 percentage points of market movement: more than enough to have turned this years under-performance into out-performance.
Re-appointment of the Manager Every year the Board reviews the performance of the Manager in each category of its activities.
In the Boards view there has been notable continuing progress in marketing and shareholder communications although some statistics still need sharpening up on the greatly-improved web-site.
The administration and staff work has been to the usual very high standard.
Unlike many of its competitors, JPMorgan has emerged from a very difficult year with its brand enhanced.
But, of course, the most critical factor in the Boards decision to re-appoint the Manager is continuing evidence that it will deliver out-performance of the benchmark over the long term.
Your Company must return to delivering what it says on the tin or there must be changes.
On the basis of the supportive outcome of its review, your Board is content to reappoint the Manager for 2009 10.
It will, however, continue to monitor closely the portfolios performance, and the continuing evolution of the investment process, and is prepared to take all necessary steps to ensure that the Company delivers the level of long-term out-performance which shareholders can justifiably expect.
Gearing The ability to gear returns by borrowing is a key advantage that investment trusts have over other investment fund structures.
As noted above it adds to risk but, so long as equities increase in value, gearing should work to the long-term benefit of shareholders if the timing of its deployment is well-judged.
The rate of interest on the borrowing also has bearing.
In 1999 the Company borrowed q35 million by way of bank loan and in 2001 a further q100 million by way of Floating Rate Note.
The interest rate on both loans was fixed by swap contracts.
Given that interest rates have fallen significantly, your Board unwound the swap arrangements last August, thankfully before the counterparties, Lehman Brothers and Royal Bank of Scotland, those two pillars of the financial establishment, succumbed to the Samsonian embrace of the credit crunch.
The effect has been to reduce the average interest rate payable by the Company from over 6% to the current 2.3%.
The q35 million loan is due for repayment in December 2009 and the FRN in June 2011, at which dates decisions will be taken on whether, and on what terms, to renew.
Discount Management As is usually the case in troubled markets, a widening discount of share price to net asset value per share has made the fall in the total return to shareholders worse than the fall in net asset value alone.
Total return to shareholders was -43.1% and -33.9% on the Growth and Income shares respectively, compared with the -37.5% and -30.5% falls in net asset value.
The range of discounts varied widely over the year on both classes of share: between 3.8% and 18.1% on the Growth shares and between 2.2% and 17.7% on the Income shares.
The Company reorganised in August 2006, creating the Income shares.
At the time, the Company announced a revised discount control policy under which it would 8 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 T H E C O M P A N Y repurchase shares with the aim of establishing long-term levels of discount for both the Growth shares and Income shares at or below 5% with debt valued at par.
This policy was introduced at that time in light of then benign market conditions and the discount at which the ordinary shares were trading.
Since then, the Company has bought back 28m Income shares and 57m Growth shares.
Notwithstanding the level of buybacks, the 12 month average discount for the Income Shares has widened to 8% and, for the Growth Shares, to 10%.
Market conditions have remained volatile and the average discount of the funds in the Companys peer group have widened from 5.4% as at 31st July 2006 to 10.7% as at 22nd May 2009.
Accordingly, and in consultation with a number of the Companys largest shareholders, the Board has revisited the discount control policy.
It remains of the view that it is important to seek to address imbalances in the supply of and demand for the Companys shares and to minimise thereby the volatility and absolute level of the discount to net asset value at which the Companys shares trade.
Whilst it remains the long term aim of the Company to maintain the discount on both share classes at or below 5% with debt at fair value, in current market conditions it has been deemed prudent, for the time being, to allow for slightly greater discounts, should they develop.
Nonetheless, your Board would not wish to see the discounts widen beyond 10%.
The precise level and timing of any repurchases carried out pursuant to the policy will depend upon prevailing market conditions at the relevant time.
The Board will continue to monitor this policy in light of market conditions.
Dividends It has been a good year for dividends.
Although that happy outcome is not a primary objective of the Growth portfolio, it has paid 9.5p per share on the Growth shares, giving them a yield of 8.2% on the year-end share price of 116.5p per share.
Payments have amounted to 5.15p on the Income shares, giving them a yield of 8.5% on the year-end share price of 60.3p.
These payments were enhanced by the sum of 6.2 million recovered from previous payments of VAT on management fees, plus interest, which, as I reported last year, the European Court of Justice had ruled were unlawfully levied by HM Revenue and Customs.
This special element of the dividends amounted to 2.5p for the Growth shares and 1.15p for the Income shares.
Without these special elements the above yields would have been 6.0% and 6.6% respectively.
Looking ahead, the current economic climate suggests that it may be difficult to maintain the cash level of dividends next year, though we are confident that yields will remain significantly higher than those available from holding cash.
The Board continues to have under review ways in which the difference in dividend payments between the Growth and Income shares might be increased, it being felt preferable by the Board that Income shares should, if possible, offer a more significant premium on yield over the Growth shares.
Board of Directors As previously announced, there have been two changes to the Board over the year.
In anticipation of Alex Zagoreoss retirement last December, Stephen Goldman was appointed in September.
He has a wide experience of investing in European equities.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 9 T H E C O M P A N Y Chairmans Statement continued Following 12 years at NM Rothschild Asset Management, in the pension department, where he was promoted to lead the UK Equity Research team, he joined JPMorgan in 1990 as Head of the UK Portfolio Management and the European Client Portfolio Management teams.
In 2000 he moved to Credit Suisse Asset Management as Managing Director and Head of Equities for the European Region.
He was responsible for the equity teams throughout Europe which managed both specialist and balanced mandates for both institutional and retail clients.
Your Board is fortunate in attracting a candidate of his experience and I will be delighted to introduce Stephen to shareholders who can attend the AGM in July, when he will stand for formal election to the Board.
The Directors retiring and standing for re-election will be Ferdinand Verdonck and Robin Faber.
Annual General Meeting Please note that the venue for the AGM has changed from that of recent years, being held this year at the Armourers Hall, 81 Coleman Street, London EC2R 5BJ on Thursday, 16th July at 12 noon.
A presentation by the Investment Managers will be followed by the formal proceedings and a buffet lunch, when shareholders can meet the Directors and Managers for informal conversation.
It would be helpful if shareholders seeking answers to detailed questions put them in writing beforehand, addressed to the Company Secretary, JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Alternatively, questions may be submitted to the Companys website.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST are able to lodge their proxy votes electronically.
Outlook Arguably, the credit crunch has been the greatest  shock to the global economic system in the history of the world.
The unprecedented evaporation of credit has removed a substantial quantity of the fuel that powered economic growth over the last decade some estimates put it at $120 trillion of lost credit, given that $4 trillion of assets will be written off at leverage of 30:1.
Not surprisingly, therefore, the global economy could be settling into the deepest and most uniform recession world-wide since the early nineteen thirties.
I wrote in my statement last year that the likelihood of a slowdown in consumer spending generally seems inevitable and that the outlook for share prices in the short-term looks decidedly uncertain.
Since then markets have fallen by some 40% with those highly-geared sectors most affected by the credit crunch falling by 80% and more to depths more profound than they plumbed at the bottom of the last bear market in 2003.
While corporate profits will be squeezed for as long as consumer spending is depressed, the massive injections of central funding around the world suggest that economic activity will be buoyed and hence consumer spending will return.
The comprehensive erosion of government finances around the world creates new space for the private 10 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Thus the long term outlook for shares is rosy.
The financial sector is unlikely to suffer again for many years the agonies of the last twelve months.
It must, as usual, lead the way out of recession and is therefore particularly attractive for investors who can stand the volatility.
The extent and timing of the upside is, of course, uncertain.
The economic system has been badly hurt and is fragile, not least in the Euro area.
Naturally, there will be set-backs and bear market rallies along the way.
But bull markets climb a wall of worry and usually begin when the outlook is gloomiest.
As long as markets settle into their normal pattern of rewarding companies with expanding prospects, and the access to capital to finance them, the long term direction of share prices from here is much more likely to be up than down.
Given a return to normal evaluation by the market of individual equities relative merits, and with the lessons learnt from last years experience, your Board looks forward to the Managers investment process returning to deliver long term out-performance again, by continuing to select a portfolio from the best of value and growth.
Andrew Murison Chairman 8th June 2009 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
