Chairmans Statement Investment Performance Over the year to 30th September 2009, your Company produced a total return on net assets in sterling terms of 10.5%, underperforming the sterling total return of the Tokyo Stock Exchange First Section TOPIX Index our benchmark of 12.7%.
The return to shareholders was 10.3%, reflecting the widening of the discount on the Companys shares from 15.1% to 15.5% over the course of the financial year.
Revenue and Dividends Net revenue after taxation for the year was 5,078,000 2008: 5,180,000 and earnings per share were 2.96p 2008: 2.97p.
I am pleased to report that the Companys revenue position is sufficiently strong to maintain last years level of dividend and, to that end, the Board proposes, subject to shareholders approval at the AGM, to pay a final dividend of 2.80p per share 2008: 2.80p.
The dividend would be payable on 18th December 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4th December 2009.
I would again stress that dividend streams from Japan remain unpredictable and depend to a considerable degree on the construction of the portfolio at any given time.
This years payment therefore should not be taken as any indication of future dividend payments.
Gearing The Board of Directors sets the overall strategic gearing policy and guidelines and reviews these at each meeting.
The investment managers then manage the gearing within these agreed levels.
As at the date of this report, the Company was 107.6% geared, the level having ranged between 99.0% and 114.8% during the year.
Investment Manager The Companys objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth from a portfolio of investments in Japanese companies.
Following the initial six months of the year to September 2009 when assets declined, there was an improvement in the second half and overall, your Company produced a total return on net assets in sterling terms of 10.5% for the year under review.
This return was below the sterling total return of our Benchmark, the Tokyo Stock Exchange First Section TOPIX Index which rose 12.7% during the year, but the whole of the underperformance in the portfolio took place in the first six months.
Your Board feel that the changes and subsequent refinements that have been made to the portfolio management process over the last two years have materially contributed to this improvement in performance.
With responsibility for the management of the portfolio having been transferred to Tokyo in December 2007, your Board also feel that the success of the revised management process should be apparent on a continuing and consistent basis in the future.
The improvement achieved in recent months is, we hope, evidence of this, but the Board continues to monitor closely the ongoing operation to ensure that this improvement is continued.
2 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Board of Directors During the year, the Board carried out an evaluation of the Directors, the Chairman, the Boards operations and its Committees.
Three Directors are seeking re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
The Directors retiring by rotation are Andrew Fleming and Keith Percy, who being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, I, having served as a Director for in excess of nine years, therefore also retire and will seek re-election.
The Board does not believe that length of service in itself should disqualify a Director from seeking re-election and, in proposing my reelection, it has taken into account the ongoing requirements of the Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
Both Andrew and Keith contribute significantly to the Boards deliberations and I have no hesitation in recommending their re-election.
Authority to Repurchase the Companys Shares At last years AGM, shareholders granted the Directors authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the companys shares for cancellation.
The Company repurchased 2.4% of the Companys issued share capital 4,150,841 shares for cancellation during the year, adding 0.4% to performance.
The Directors believe that the power to buy back shares is of ongoing benefit to shareholders and therefore proposes that the authority be renewed for a further period.
Annual General Meeting This years Annual General Meeting will be held on 18th December 2009 at 2.00 pm at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH.
As in previous years, in addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
There will also be an opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment Managers and representatives of J. P. Morgan Asset Management after the meeting.
I look forward to welcoming as many of you as possible to this meeting.
If you have any detailed or technical questions, it would be helpful if you could raise these in advance of the meeting with the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM are encouraged to cast their votes by proxy.
Outlook The prospects for much of the domestic Japanese economy are uninspiring as the long term structural problems facing Japan continue to prevail.
However, companies that can aggressively cut costs or focus their efforts on the emerging economies within Asia can prosper.
Japans proximity to, and increasing trade with, the fast growing Asian economies should provide further opportunities for our Managers over the coming months.
Jeremy Paulson-Ellis Chairman 20th November 2009 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
