7792 7bPFP Law Deb R&A 2009 22 2 10 17:57 Page 6 6 Chairmans statement Performance Independent fiduciary services Our net asset value total return for the year to 31 December Independent fiduciary services profit before tax rose by 3.8%.
2009 was 37.8%, compared to a total return of 30.1% for the Assisted by a one-off gain of 694,000 as a result of changes FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index.
made to the pension scheme during the year, performance was generally good in what was an extremely difficult year for the Our gross income declined over the year by 0.8% from 47.4m capital markets.
The managing directors review discusses this to 47.0m.
Profit revenue attributable to shareholders was in more detail see pages 14 and 15.
In July 2009, we took 15.3m, a reduction of 16.4% over the previous year, as a the difficult step of reducing head count to manage the cost result of a 28.4% fall in the investment trust and a 6.5% base more efficiently.
This followed our decision earlier in the increase in independent fiduciary services.
year to re-shape the pension arrangements for employees, which has already brought benefits for shareholders as Dividend described at note 23.
2010 looks like being another difficult The board is recommending a final dividend of 8.0p per ordinary year so a repeat of 2009 revenues would be a creditable share 2008: 8.0p, which together with the interim dividend of achievement.
We continue to seek new opportunities to grow, 4.2p 2008: 4.2p gives a total dividend of 12.2p 2008: both organically and by way of acquisition, should suitable 12.2p.
The dividend has been maintained despite a difficult opportunities arise to acquire businesses that would period during which many companies have had to reduce complement Law Debentures existing businesses.
The final dividend will be paid, subject to shareholder approval, on 1 April 2010 to holders on the register at the Board record date of 5 March 2010.
The Corporations policy Following Christopher Smiths appointment to the board, and continues to be to seek growth in both capital and income.
reflecting his corporate finance expertise, he was appointed as chairman of the audit committee in succession to John Kay Investment trust who took on the chair of Law Debentures pension plan board.
The year saw a marked upturn in equity market share prices, although revenues were lower than forecast as companies Staff chose to reduce dividends or cut them altogether.
We The independent fiduciary services businesses are run by concentrated on seeking companies that had managed their professional, experienced and committed people, whom costs prudently during the recession, believing that these I should like to thank for their hard work during the year.
companies would be well placed to benefit from a return to economic growth.
Gearing remained steady at around 8-10% through the year, reflecting the boards belief that there were Douglas McDougall still sufficient uncertainties about future prospects to rule out any increase.
Surplus cash was invested in investment grade short-dated corporate bonds, which generated much better returns than were available from bank deposits.
The Far East investment was restructured as funds were moved out of the Henderson Asia Pacific OEIC, which had underperformed for some time, into other portfolio based investments.
Looking forward, we believe that the prospects for UK dividends have improved, and that it is right to maintain a modest level of gearing.
While opinions vary as to how long the recent rally will last, the portfolio is well positioned to take advantage should it continue to do so, while being sufficiently defensive to weather further shocks that may come as the world emerges from recession.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
