4 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 OUR GROUP CHAiRMANs sTATEMENT.
A CHALLENGiNG YEAR This is my first communication with you, our shareholders, as the new Chairman of your Company.
I have known and worked with Legal & General for many years and have found the company to have huge strengths, including its balance sheet, cash-generative capacity, strong brand and commitment to customers.
In the 2008 Annual Report, your previous Chairman indicated that we expected continuing recession in the UK in 2009 and, sadly, he was not wrong.
In the first quarter of 2009 financial markets were left reeling after narrowly avoiding a systemic failure of the banking system and entering one of the sharpest, deepest recessions on record.
However, over the course of one of the most difficult years in my memory, a financial meltdown was avoided and a feared 1930s style depression did not materialise.
Through this period of extreme uncertainty, no major UK-listed insurer was forced to cease trading, ask for iN TAKiNG OVER fROM siR ROB taxpayer funding or go to the stock market to raise fresh MARGETTs i AM CONfiDENT THAT capital.
Most importantly, no promises to policyholders i HAVE jOiNED A COMPANY THAT is were reneged upon.
Investment performance suffered with falling markets, but customers claims and pensions sTRATEGiCALLY wELL-POsiTiONED continued to be paid as normal.
This is testament to the TO DELiVER PROfiTABLE GROwTH strength and importance of the life industry in the UK.
iN THE UK AND iNTERNATiONALLY wHiLE ALsO fULfiLLiNG A BROADER, Throughout the course of the year, policy makers undertook extraordinary measures to rebuild confidence sOCiALLY UsEfUL, REMiT.
in the financial system and stimulate economic activity.
I am pleased that these actions, alongside the steady stewardship of your Board, have had a positive impact on our share price and on your returns, ensuring that we entered 2010 in a strong position.
sHAREHOLDER RETURN AND DiViDEND By the end of the year, the FTSE All-Share Index saw a recovery to 2761, 25% above its 2209 at the start of last year.
Our total shareholder return TSR for 2009 was 11% 2008: negative 28%.
To see a video of John Stewart please visit www.
com This year, in line with improved market conditions, but recognising the need to retain a strong capital base, the Board is recommending an increase in the final dividend of 33% to 2.73p per share.
With the interim dividend of 1.11p, this will bring total dividends for 2009 to 3.84p.
our grouP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 5 full YeAr dividend ifrs oPerAting Profit eev oPerAting Profit 3.84p 1,109m 1,319m 2008: 4.06p 2008: 592m restated 2008: 875m restated sir roB mArgetts AnnuAl generAl meeting Agm This years AGM will be held on Wednesday 26 May at the Institution of Engineering and Technology, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL.
BoArd ChAnges In addition to my appointment there have been a number of changes to the Board this year.
In June we welcomed Dame Clara Furse, formerly Chief Executive of London Stock Exchange Group, as a Non-Executive Director of the Group and in September Dr. Nigel Wilson joined the Board as Group Chief Financial Officer in succession to Andrew Palmer.
Rob Margetts joined Legal & Generals Board in I would like to thank Andrew for the contribution he June 1996 and became Chairman in February made to Legal & General over his long period with the 2000.
An industrialist by background, he brought Company and to formally welcome Nigel and Dame a wealth of experience to bear during his long Clara to the Board.
tenure at the helm of our Board of Directors.
Full details of all changes can be found on page 45 of He also brought a strong commitment to the report.
reinforcing the Companys clear values and ethics.
our stAff As a result of the economic situation, fiscal changes and He was a leading green entrepreneur long before our pursuit of increased efficiency we reduced resource the concept became fashionable, and was the levels across the Group this year.
This resulted in driving force behind Legal & Generals leadership redundancies in several areas.
in the environmental and CSR fields.
Notwithstanding these changes our employees have During Sir Robs decade of service as Chairman, continued to perform at their normal high standard he has consistently demonstrated his ability to and I am very grateful to them for their hard work provide wise counsel and clear board leadership and commitment.
outlook We value hugely and thank him for his As we head into 2010, economic indicators have started extraordinary commitment both to the success to improve and financial markets have responded slowly.
of Legal & General and to our strong ethic as a Over the next twelve months we anticipate only modest responsible provider of financial services.
We growth in the UK economy and activity in the housing wish him well in the next stage of his career.
market is likely to remain subdued.
However, fresh signs of improvement in the manufacturing sector should help restore economic growth in 2010 and we believe the Company is well positioned to seize the opportunities offered by this recovery.
sir dAvid wAlker viCe ChAirmAn john stewArt ChAirmAn
