6 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Sir Winfried Bischoff 2009 HAS BEEN A YEAR OF CHANGE BUT ALSO ONE OF ACHIEVEMENT AS THE BUSINESS HAS POSITIONED ITSELF TO BENEFIT FROM WHAT WE EXPECT TO BE STRONG EARNINGS MOMENTUM OVER THE NEXT FEW YEARS OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 7 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 My first annual statement to you as chairman comes at the end of OUR YEAR IN BRIEF what has been a momentous and, at times, extraordinary year for Lloyds Banking Group.
It has been a year of change but also one of CREATION OF LLOYDS BANKING GROUP achievement as the business has positioned itself to benefit from Lloyds Banking Group was created in January 2009 and is now the what we expect is going to be good earnings momentum over UKs largest retail bank.
The changing economic climate both in the UK and overseas over the past 12 months has presented the banking GOVERNMENT ASSET PROTECTION SCHEME industry with many difficult challenges.
However, as we move into In March, in what was clearly a very difficult external market, the 2010, we believe that we are well positioned to benefit from the Group announced its intention to participate in the Government encouraging signs of economic recovery, albeit we believe the UK Asset Protection Scheme.
At the time the Scheme provided an economy will grow at below trend levels over the next few years.
opportunity to reduce the risk profile of the balance sheet and Our commitment to our customers continues to be at the heart of significantly strengthen the Groups capital position.
A more our business and our relationship with them is critical to our success.
economically favourable alternative was later pursued.
Only by focusing on the needs of our customers and offering PLACING AND COMPENSATORY OPEN OFFER products and services that address those needs can we expect to A placing and compensatory open offer was successfully be successful and deliver benefit to all our stakeholders.
The proceeds allowed the Group to repurchase the 4 billion of preference shares held by HM Treasury.
ACHIEVEMENTS EU STATE AID I am encouraged by what Lloyds Banking Group as an organisation In November the Groups restructuring plan was agreed by the has achieved this year.
In particular, in November we launched the European Commission.
The board approved the restructuring largest ever capital raising comprising a 9 billion debt exchange plan and is confident that this will not have a materially negative and a 13.5 billion rights issue.
This capital raising programme could impact on the Group.
not have been completed so successfully without the strong support of the vast majority of our shareholders, debt holders and of course CAPITAL RAISING importantly the UK Government through UK Financial Investments.
In December we successfully undertook the largest ever capital We remain immensely grateful to them for that support.
In providing raising in Europe comprising a 9 billion debt exchange and this market-based alternative to our intended participation in the a 13.5 billion rights issue.
This provided a market-based Government Asset Protection Scheme, we believe we provided alternative to our intended participation in the Government Asset superior economic value to our shareholders.
Both the rights Protection Scheme and provided superior economic value to issue and the liability management exercise are an important step our shareholders.
towards meeting our, and the Governments, objective for the Group to operate as a wholly privately owned self-supporting commercial RESILIENT CORE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE enterprise.
HM Treasurys stake in the Group of 43.4 per cent at the Whilst the capital raising activities took much of the external year end has reduced to 41.3 per cent following the completion of attention during 2009, the Group has continued to deliver a the capital raising programme in February 2010. resilient core business performance in a difficult economic During the last few months of 2009 the Group, together with environment.
The integration of the two businesses is progressing HM Treasury, concluded negotiations with the European ahead of schedule and the Group is now very well positioned for Commission on a restructuring plan required as a result of the future earnings growth.
state aid received by the Group.
We will dispose of a retail banking business with at least 600 branches, a 4.6 per cent market share of the personal current account market in the UK and approximately 19 per cent of the Groups mortgage assets, along with a number of behavioural remedies.
The board is confident that the plan will not have a materially negative impact on the Group.
One of the behavioural commitments we entered into as part of the plan is not to make coupon payments or to exercise voluntary call options on certain securities from 31 January 2010 until 31 January 2012.
This will also prevent us from paying dividends on our ordinary shares for the same duration.
We fully understand the hardship that the lack of dividend and coupon payments has caused many of our shareholders and stakeholders, and we are working diligently to restore the ability to pay dividends and create shareholder value.
The board intends to resume dividend payments on ordinary shares as soon as market conditions and the financial performance of the Group permit, subject to the expiry, in 2012, of the restrictions arising from the European Commissions remedies.
8 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Whilst the capital raising activities took much of the external to and can be broadly supported by regulatory authorities and attention during 2009, the Group delivered a resilient core governments.
Such proposals could set the industry on the path business performance and the integration of the two businesses is towards an internationally agreed understanding, removing the progressing ahead of schedule.
Further detail on our performance uncertainty and scepticism hanging over the industry both of which is outlined in the group chief executives review.
factors act as a brake on progress, to the detriment of the broader economies.
PEOPLE REMUNERATION The past year has been difficult for everyone and we are mindful of the uncertainty our colleagues have faced.
We are conscious of the current public debate about remuneration in the banking sector.
We understand that this is a sensitive issue for Since joining the Group in September, I have had the pleasure of many people at a time when their personal finances are challenged, meeting many of our colleagues and it is clear we have a strong and also in the light of the significant support given by taxpayers team who have shown an impressive degree of professionalism, to our industry.
We have thought carefully and responsibly about enthusiasm, commitment and sheer hard work in these challenging the design of our remuneration schemes and have been engaged circumstances.
Not only have they successfully undertaken the in discussions with, and listened to, the views of a broad group of normal day job of serving our customers and realising the potential our shareholders on the remuneration of senior management.
We of the leading franchise in the UK, but they are engaged in are committed to maintaining the right balance between reward, implementing one of the most complex integration and corporate risk management and performance and will continue to emphasise restructurings ever undertaken.
They have acquitted themselves consultation with our shareholders with a view to achieving the right admirably and I thank them on behalf of all shareholders.
Specifically, we are active participants in the debate about Importantly, our Group is led by a strong management team who the appropriate remuneration structures for the banking sector.
I believe have the skills to ensure this organisation delivers value to We believe deferral and clawback are the way forward and have our customers and shareholders.
They have successfully addressed implemented these two factors in our own remuneration structures.
the key strategic and operational challenges facing the organisation They have also become key features of remuneration design in the and will continue to do so to the benefit of all our stakeholders.
banking sector more generally and will be refined further, here in the UK and elsewhere.
THE BANKING INDUSTRY As we announced on 22 February 2010, our group chief executive, Eric Daniels decided to waive the bonus which the board on the It is of course a privilege to have the opportunity to serve our recommendation of the remuneration committee had awarded customers.
Given our scale, with that privilege comes obligations.
Eric took this decision in the interests of the Group since he That is why we are playing an active part in the UKs economic felt the public debate about bonuses in the banking industry was recovery.
I am pleased to note that we extended 70 billion of in danger of obscuring the very real advances which had been gross committed lending last year helping many households achieved in terms of capital creation, quality of revenues, earnings and businesses in the process.
As the countrys largest private prospects and write-offs, and integration benefits.
We are grateful sector savings institution, we also played a commensurate part in to Eric for his action.
At the same time, I believe it is important encouraging people to rediscover the savings habit, an essential for the future that we and our shareholders find a way whereby component of the economic recovery.
More broadly we were, remuneration models will be allowed to be honoured without the and continue to be, involved in all the Government schemes recipient being put in a position to feel he should waive the awards to encourage lending and to assist people or businesses in arising from them.
Also, our Lloyds Development Capital activities We are, as you know, primarily a retail and commercial bank.
This provide vital equity and debt capital to smaller and medium-sized businesses that often are the most vulnerable, but at the same time, means that the total payout under our Group bonus schemes for 2009 will be a small percentage of overall revenues.
All awards in most growth orientated parts of the economy.
the Group are subject, where appropriate, to deferral and clawback To the extent that banking institutions, including Lloyds Banking and agreed with UK Financial Investments and the Financial Services Group, meet their obligations of service and intermediation and Authority FSA.
are responsible and pro-active conduits of channelling savings into productive enterprises and households, we hope that trust in our institutions may be re-established.
It will not happen overnight, DIRECTORS AND GOVERNANCE but happen it must and it is up to us to ensure by our actions that Governance structures are increasingly important in the financial it does.
I am committed to ensuring that Lloyds Banking It follows that it is right that there is thoughtful and considered Group is at the forefront of these developments.
To that end the debate on the shape and structure of our industry and not simply board has given additional authority to our nomination committee knee-jerk reaction by the industry.
Accordingly, I believe that the and renamed it nomination and governance committee, to deal combined efforts of a few of the major global financial institutions, with all governance matters and make recommendations on these perhaps with two or three of the respected industry bodies, to the board.
should pro-actively help develop proposals which are acceptable OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 18 The board 96 Report of the independent Shareholder information 261 auditors on the consolidated Group strategy 2 Divisional results 24 Directors report 98 Glossary 262 financial statements 126 Divisional overview 3 Our people 50 Corporate governance 100 Abbreviations 265 Consolidated financial Group performance 4 Corporate responsibility 52 Directors remuneration report 105 Index to annual report 266 statements 127 Group KPIs 5 Risk management 56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Chairmans statement 6 Five year financial summary 95 Report of the independent Group chief executives review 10 auditors on the parent Group chief executives Q&A 14 company financial statements 249 Marketplace trends 16 Parent company financial statements 250 9 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 253 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Since February 2009, there have been eleven changes to the board, five new directors and six departures.
In February 2009 two new non-executive directors were appointed.
Anthony Watson CBE brings with him over 40 years experience in the investment management industry.
Timothy Ryan is a senior investment banker with a wealth of knowledge and understanding of the financial services industry and significant experience in the governmental sector.
Lord Leitch was appointed deputy chairman in May 2009.
In March 2010 we will be joined by Glen Moreno and David Roberts.
Glen is chairman of Pearson plc and will be senior independent director.
He has significant financial and banking industry and public company experience in the UK and abroad.
David Roberts deep understanding at the most senior level of commercial and retail banking in the UK, Europe and internationally is particularly valuable in that core business of our Group.
As you know I joined on 15 September 2009.
The full particulars and background of all our directors are set out on pages 96 and 97.
We have also seen a number of departures.
Ewan Brown, Jan du Plessis, Philip Green, Sir David Manning and Carolyn McCall have all retired from the board.
I would like to thank each of them for their contribution to the Group, in some cases for many years, and during a period of great change, and latterly turmoil, in the banking sector.
We wish them well for the future.
I wish also to pay tribute to my predecessor Sir Victor Blank as chairman of the Group during a tumultuous time.
Sir Victor has had a long and distinguished career in financial and professional services and in commerce and industry and he retires with my thanks for his counsel and commitment since his appointment in 2006.
OUTLOOK The acquisition of HBOS at the beginning of 2009 improved the strategic positioning of Lloyds Banking Group albeit at short-term cost.
We now have leading positions in many of the financial markets in which we participate, a market leading distribution capability, well recognised brands and a large customer base.
The scale of the organisation provides us with the opportunity to further invest in products and services, systems and training, offering unparalleled choice and service to our customers.
This strategic positioning, along with our strong relationship focus and prudent risk appetite, provides the platform for future growth.
The successful execution of our strategy which is to focus on core markets, on customer and cost leadership, on capital efficiency and on a prudent risk and funding profile should enable the Group to deliver earnings growth and shareholder value whilst achieving its aim to be recognised as the best financial services company in the UK.
Sir Winfried Bischoff Chairman 25 February 2010
