Man Group plc 06 Annual Report 2009 Business Review Chairmans Report Against a background of severe economic downturn and uncertainty, the role the Board plays in reviewing strategy, monitoring performance, understanding risk and reviewing controls is of paramount importance.
Jon Aisbitt Chairman Jon Aisbitt Chairman Business Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2009 07 Total shareholder return The 2008 9 financial year witnessed some areas for future focus, including a unprecedented turmoil in the financial markets, renewed concentration on executive director Year to 3 years to with dramatic impact on the availability of credit, and senior management succession planning 31 3 09 31 3 09 extreme volatility in equity, commodity and which is essential to our continued success, currency prices and severely depressed and I look forward to working with my Man Group 58% 12% investor sentiment and risk appetite.
The colleagues on these in the course of the year.
FTSE 100 28% 10% performance and stability of the banking and A more detailed account of the operation and general financial sector were, as a activities of the Board and its Committees consequence, very badly hit leading to some during the year is given in the Corporate companies needing state subsidy to survive Governance Report on page 48. and others to cut or pass their dividend.
Peter Clarke highlights in his Review the benefits in The year ahead will see some changes in turbulent markets of the Companys flexible Board membership.
Glen Moreno, who has business model, global reach and robust capital served as a non-executive director for 15 years position and explains how his executive team is and as Senior Independent Director since developing an integrated hedge fund 2002, has decided to retire at this years AGM.
management business to respond to investor We are very grateful for the extensive industry demand for governance and risk management, knowledge, experience and robust guidance transparency and liquidity.
and wisdom he has brought to the Board through the various stages of Man Groups The directors are accountable to shareholders evolution.
His unique contribution will be very for the performance of the business and much missed and he leaves with our best the protection of the Companys assets.
I am pleased that Alison Transparency is key for shareholder confidence Carnwath has agreed to take over from him as and for this reason we have tried to enhance Senior Independent Director.
the quality of our reporting in the Annual Report this year.
This years economic and market turbulence has resulted in a total shareholder return of Against a background of severe economic 58% and an average annual return of 12% downturn and uncertainty, the role the Board on a three year basis.
The Company has, plays in reviewing and reinforcing business nevertheless, achieved a substantial profit strategy, monitoring the performance of the in a difficult year when some other industry Chief Executive and management team, players have reported substantial losses.
understanding risk and reviewing risk controls It is the quality of Mans income generation is of paramount importance.
I am pleased and business performance, coupled with the to lead a Board whose non-executives bring strength of its balance sheet, that has enabled a wealth of experience in international fund the Board to maintain its final dividend for management and financial services to their 2008 9 at the same level as the previous year.
stewardship of the business and who provide substantial challenge to their executive I pay tribute to the energy, skill and colleagues.
Of particular note this year commitment of all our staff who have has been the focus of the Audit and Risk continued to deliver performance in very Committee on liquidity, valuation and challenging markets and who acted so quickly increased risk.
The Remuneration Committee to fide-risk investors assets and protect our has brought increased rigour to the business at the end of the last calendar year.
determination of the bonus pool, the Looking ahead, work is now in progress to assessment of executive director and leverage the Companys scale and distribution senior management performance, and the network and our peoples hedge fund consideration of how risk should be reflected in investing, product structuring and regulatory bonus structures.
The Nomination Committee expertise in the development of a new hedge has broadened its remit and implemented a fund management business.
This, together rigorous and thorough process for nonwith recent reductions in our cost base executive director search.
and planned operational efficiencies, will provide the basis for balanced and profitable In addition, the Board as a whole participated future growth.
this year in an external evaluation of its operation and effectiveness conducted Jon Aisbitt by an independent third party.
The findings Chairman of this work confirmed a culture of strong engagement, commitment and open debate, all of which position us well to respond to current challenges.
