2 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chairmans Statement Over the year to 31st January 2009, the 124th year since the Company was founded, the Companys total return on net assets i. e. with net income reinvested was 39.3%, which compares with a return of 36.2% on the same basis from the Companys benchmark index, the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment trusts.
Conditions in the financial markets globally and particularly in the UK economy were the worst for decades and the Companys performance was very adversely affected despite the fact that the Company was in a net cash position for substantial periods throughout the year.
Earnings and Dividends Earnings per share increased by 4.9% for the year, from 39.79p to 41.73p partly due to the receipt of a number of special dividends, a higher level of deposit interest income and the receipt of further VAT recoveries and interest thereon.
The Company has paid three interim dividends of 6.0p per ordinary share, and the Directors have declared a fourth quarterly interim dividend of 18.0p, giving a total dividend of 36.0p for the year, an increase of 5.9% on last years baseline dividend of 34.0p.
The Board recognises that it is essential to make an appropriate distribution, which both meets shareholders legitimate expectations, and is prudent in light of what may be continued difficult times ahead.
With this in mind, the Board feels it appropriate not to declare a special dividend in order to distribute the VAT and related interest recovered during the year, the additional amount, of 3p per share, being included in the baseline dividend.
The Board intends therefore to continue to pay three interim dividends at the current rate of 6.0p per ordinary share throughout the year ending 31st January 2010.
The level of the fourth quarterly interim dividend will be determined by the Board based on the level of income received by the Company during the year and with regard to the Companys very strong residual revenue reserve of 40.0p per share.
Share Price Discount The share price fell by 41.9% during the year and, including dividends paid, the total return to shareholders was 39.2%.
The discount to net asset value was 9.2% compared to 10.5% with debt at fair value a year ago.
The average daily discount, with debt at fair value, during the year was 10.5%.
Share Repurchases During the year under review a total of 1.98m shares were repurchased for cancellation, amounting to 1.9% of issued share capital at the beginning of the year, at a total cost of 17.59 million.
Share repurchases during the year under review have added approximately 2.4 pence to the net asset value per share.
The Boards objective remains to use the share repurchase authority to manage imbalances between the supply and demand of the Companys shares, thereby reducing the volatility of the discount.
To date the Board believes this mechanism has been helpful and therefore proposes and recommends that the powers to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys shares for cancellation be renewed for a further period.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 3 Gearing The Company ended the year with a gearing factor of 102.8% geared.
During the year the gearing varied between 89% and 103%.
It is the Boards intention to continue to operate within the range of 90% to 120% invested, under normal market conditions, although at the present time, the Board is maintaining gearing at the lower end of the range.
The Board elected not to renew the 70 million 364 day revolving credit facility in place with Lloyds TSB, which was never drawn down and expired on 4th March 2008.
VAT case Following the successful outcome, in November 2007, of the action brought by the AIC and JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc challenging the imposition of VAT on management fees for investment trust companies, in December 2008 the Board reached agreement with the Companys Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM, on the recovery of past VAT.
The total recovery by the Company from HM Revenue & Customs and JPMAM, including interest, was 10,132,000 and this was all reflected in the Companys net asset value by 23rd December 2008.
As reported in last years Annual Report, the Board retained Noble Grossart to act on behalf of the Company in this matter.
Board There have been no Board changes during the year under review.
The Board takes into account the ongoing requirements of the Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
Directors conduct a self-assessment of their performance each year.
A report is made to the Nomination Committee which meets annually to evaluate the performance of the Board, its Committees and the individual Directors.
The Chairman reports the findings of the Nomination Committee to the Board.
No re-election of Directors is required this year other than myself.
Having been a Director for more than nine years, in accordance with the Boards policy, I offer myself for re-election on an annual basis only.
Investment Managers The Companys investment management team comprises Martin Hudson, who was appointed in 1993, and Jane Lennard, who was appointed in 2006.
Emel Akan left the team, and will be replaced by a graduate recruit later in 2009.
The Board continues to monitor the performance of the Manager on a regular basis.
The notice period with respect to the Management Contract has been shortened to six months from one year, in line with market practice.
Annual General Meeting The Companys one hundred and twenty third Annual General Meeting will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Wednesday 29th April 2009 at 12.00 noon.
In addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
4 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc formerly JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chairmans Statement continued The meeting will be followed by a buffet lunch which will give shareholders an opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment Managers and representatives of JPMAM.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible at the meeting.
Please submit in writing any detailed questions that you wish to raise at the AGM to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ or via the website at www.
co. uk then click on AGM calendar.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM in person are encouraged to use their proxy votes, and attention is drawn to the changes to the proxy voting regime following the introduction of the Companies Act 2006.
8th December 2009 will mark the 125th anniversary of the founding of the Company.
Outlook The UK stock market has been severely depressed by the extremely difficult trading conditions affecting financial markets globally.
The uncertainty to business that this has caused has brought the United Kingdom into the recession which it is currently experiencing.
The Board continues to work with the Investment Managers to seek improved performance, and believes that, over time, this can be achieved.
However, despite the fact that, on a historic basis, valuations in the sectors in which we are engaged are becoming more attractive, it is unlikely that markets will progress until clarity and stability return to the global financial system.
Hamish Leslie Melville Chairman 24th March 2009 For further information, please contact: Juliet Dearlove For and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited Secretary 020 7742 6000
