06 Chairmans review Richard Lapthorne Whilst our trading position is in good health, the current Chairman volatility of the financial markets provides no basis for proper financial planning.
Consequently, we have postponed, but not cancelled, our plans for value realisation until we can foresee a sustained period of normality returning to the financial markets.
Our Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP has been a key ingredient in our success over the last three years as 2008 09 has been a year in which the fifth best performer in the FTSE 100 and the second Cable & Wireless has stood out from the best performer in the FTSE Global Telecoms Sector pack.
Amid difficult economic conditions Index.
It has proven to be effective in motivating our for all businesses we have achieved a senior management and aligning their interests with healthy set of results.
The Board has recently proposed new executive incentive arrangements to ensure we The economic conditions and state of the credit retain our best managers and keep them focused on and equity markets over the past 12 months are delivering for shareholders beyond 2009.
I have seen several recessions, proposals, the LTIP will be extended by one year to 2011. but none that has affected each region of the world simultaneously.
In these situations, management In these markets, corporate governance has also proved quality becomes an even greater differentiator to be a key differentiator.
The dislocation in credit and between companies than usual.
equity markets is bringing about a major rethink of corporate governance in Western markets.
This is I am pleased to report that the management teams a process the Board of Cable & Wireless welcomes.
of both our businesses have performed well.
Our Our Board has applied a rigorous system of governance Worldwide business has increased its EBITDA by for several years.
In addition to reporting against 49% 36% from the underlying business before the the guidelines of the Combined Code for corporate Thus acquisition.
It has moved into positive trading governance, our Senior Independent Director also cash flow and is successfully executing the integration prepares a report describing the corporate governance of Thus.
CWI has also taken a substantial step forward and behaviours of the Board on page 48, something in terms of profitability, producing double-digit growth we believe adds significant transparency in our in EBITDA.
It is tackling the cost base of its Caribbean reporting to shareholders.
operation through its One Caribbean programme, and has grown its market-leading mobile position in Finally, I would like to thank all of my fellow Panama despite further competition.
Both Worldwide Board Directors for their service this year and, and CWI have been prepared to take difficult decisions most importantly, extend my congratulations to in these challenging times, ensuring that we continue to all employees.
Their work has delivered for our deliver for our shareholders.
And so, I am delighted to be shareholders, of which they should all feel proud.
able to recommend a 13% increase in our full year dividend to 8.50 pence per share.
Our profitability is growing EBITDA up 36% to 822 million We are We are delivering for our shareholders delivering Fifth best performer in the FTSE 100 over the last three years Our dividend is increasing Recommended full year dividend of 8.50 pence per share, up 13% 07 04 Cable & Wireless at a glance 06 Chairmans review CWI Business review 09 Chief Executives review 10 Business overview 14 Performance review A review of our two 18 Corporate responsibility Worldwide businesses CWI 21 Executive Chairmans review 22 Business overview and Worldwide 26 Performance review 30 Corporate responsibility Cable & Wireless Group and our financial 32 Group Finance Directors review 33 Financial performance review performance during 37 Risk overview the year.
40 Board of Directors 42 Directors report 46 Corporate governance report 48 Statement from the independent Non-executive Directors 49 Report of the Audit Committee 50 Directors remuneration report 60 Statement of Directors responsibilities Cable & Wireless Group 62 Independent auditors report 63 Consolidated financial statements 67 Notes to the financial statements Cable and Wireless plc 120 Independent auditors report 121 Company financial statements 123 Notes to the financial statements 136 Useful shareholder information Shareholder Financial Governance Business Introduction information statements review 08 CWI We own and operate full service telecommunications businesses through four regional operations: 1 Caribbean 2 Panama 3 Macau 4 Monaco & Islands
