The Merchants Trust PLC Chairmans Statement Market and Portfolio Background Over the past year the worlds financial system has gone through its greatest crisis since the incorporation of the Trust 120 years ago and the Trust has suffered severely from the resulting weakness of equity markets.
The impact of these extraordinary market conditions on the Trusts portfolio is described in some detail in the Investment Managers Review, starting on page 6.
Results The net asset value per share fell by 37.8% to 306.2p and the total return per share, including dividends paid, was -33.2%.
This compares with the total returns of -26.3% and -25.9% recorded by the FTSE 100 Index and the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index, respectively.
Gearing had a sharply negative effect on the net asset value, reducing the returns to shareholders by approximately 7.6%.
The full performance breakdown is shown on page 5.
In the twelve months to 31 January 2009, the Trusts share price fell by 33.6% from 425.0p to 282.0p.
At 3 April 2009, the Trusts ordinary shares yielded 8.7% compared with the yield on the FTSE 100 Index of 5.1%.
Earnings per share In 2008 9 earnings per share rose by 19.2% to 27.25p.
This years earnings include a VAT refund of 1,806,000 including interest 2008 nil.
Excluding the VAT refund, the net return attributable to Ordinary Shareholders increased by 10.8%.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final ordinary dividend of 5.6p per share, payable on 15 May 2009 to Shareholders on the register on 17 April 2009.
This payment would give a total of 22.3p for the year, an increase of 3.2% over the total for the previous year.
In addition shareholders will receive a special dividend of 0.5p per Ordinary Share in respect of the recovery of VAT for the period 1990 to 1996 described below.
This years earnings per share have significantly exceeded the dividend, leading to an increase in the Revenue Reserve after allowing for payment of the special dividend and the third and final dividends, of 4.6m, or 4.45p per share.
A number of companies in which the Trust is invested have already announced cuts in their dividends and more may be expected to do so: the Trusts Revenue Reserve of 17.6p per Ordinary Share will offer some protection to shareholders in respect of the Trusts own distributions.
Gearing and Balance Sheet During the past year the Board has maintained the Companys investment policy of remaining substantially fully invested.
In forming this view, the Board has been mindful that the published objective of the Trust is to provide an above average level of income and income growth with long term growth of capital through a policy of investing mainly in higher yielding UK FTSE 100 companies.
Reducing our equity investments in order to offset our long term debt with cash would reduce the Trusts income and the potential for long term growth.
A consequence of this investment policy and the fall in equity markets is that the Trusts gearing has increased.
The book value of long term debt as a percentage of the Companys net assets was 36.0% at 31 January 2009 and, given current market conditions, it is possible that gearing may rise further.
The Board is exploring the possibility of issuing new equity should conditions prove favourable any issue would only be at a premium to the Companys cum-income net asset value with debt at market value and the Company has recently obtained approval for a listing of up to 10% of its share capital to facilitate this.
We are also exploring the possibility of using exchange-traded stock and index options with the aim of reducing the volatility of our net assets.
VAT As mentioned above we have received a refund of VAT in respect of the period 1990 to 1996 which, including interest, totals 2,011,000.
This figure has been incorporated in our results for the financial period under review.
We are at an advanced stage in our discussions with our investment manager and hope soon to conclude a settlement in excess of 1.2 million in respect of the 2000 to 2007 period, which we anticipate will be reflected in the current financial year.
Repurchase of Shares During the financial year no shares were bought back for cancellation.
However, as in previous years, the Board is proposing to renew the authority to repurchase shares at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2009.
3 The Merchants Trust PLC Chairmans Statement The Trusts Board Joe Scott Plummer, who joined the Board in May 1997, will be retiring at this years Annual General Meeting.
He has made a considerable contribution as a director of the Trust, having served as Chairman of the Audit Committee and as our Senior Independent Director, and we will miss him.
Prospects The decline of economic activity in recent months has been harsh and extraordinary.
Confidence remains very fragile and it will take time before it can be rebuilt.
It is the task of our Manager to assemble a portfolio of UK companies which have the prospect of surviving the current uncertainty, of maintaining our income and prospering when conditions improve.
As in previous cycles, however, the market is likely to anticipate a recovery in the economy before it arrives and the Manager will also be looking to take advantage of any attractive investment opportunities.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Tuesday 12 May 2009 at 12.00 noon and we look forward to seeing as many shareholders then as are able to attend.
