ChaIrMans sTaTeMenT Chairmans Statement result, earnings may fluctuate considerably from year to year and the Performance Board takes this into account in recommending dividends.
Earnings In the year to 30 April 2009 net asset value per share, with in the year to 30 April 2009 benefited from an unusually high level borrowings at fair value, fell by 34.0% and the FTSE World Index of income from bonds and increased dividend payments from a in sterling terms fell by 20.8%.
Performance stabilised in the second number of holdings, reflecting the fact that many of the companies half after a very poor period in September and October, during in which we invest were highly profitable despite the deterioration which the net asset value fell by approximately 36% while the in the global economic background.
Given the general economic comparative index fell by 20%.
In the first half of the Companys downturn and the restricted availability of credit, dividend cuts have year net asset value per share fell by 38.9% and the index fell by to be expected and income from bonds with coupons linked to short 23.6%.
In the second half, net asset value per share rose by 7.9% term interest rates is also falling, as official interest rates have been and the index rose by 3.6%.
The share price ended the year at cut and short term rates charged by banks to each other have also 236.5p, 32.0% lower than at the end of the previous year.
The Board feels it would therefore be unwise to project performance in the last year has eroded a good part of the gains the earnings for last year into the future.
Owing to a large increase of previous years, but over the five years to 30 April 2009 the net in income at the half year stage, it was clear that an increase in asset value has still risen by 25.2% and the share price by 36.7% the dividend for the full year would be necessary to maintain the while the comparative index has only risen by 8.0%.
Performance Companys status as an investment trust and in the light of this the over the year was clearly disappointing and came about despite Board decided to increase the interim dividend to 1.00p from the elimination of effective gearing and the steps taken to reduce 0.50p.
The Board is now recommending a final dividend of 5.00p exposure to overstretched consumers and excessively leveraged and compared with 3.20p for the previous year.
If approved, this will imprudent lenders during the previous year.
make the total dividend for the year 6.00p, an increase of 62.2% In very broad terms, the explanation is that stock selection was from the 3.70p paid last year.
influenced by, what turned out to be, an inaccurate view of the For the Companys year to 30 April 2010 the Board will consider world: namely that while the financial systems of many countries the payment of a second interim dividend in April.
were in a critical condition and over-indebted consumers in countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom would need to Investment Activity start saving more and spending less, a catastrophic failure of the During the year we made a number of changes to the portfolio as banking system would be prevented and growth elsewhere in the events unfolded.
Net sales of equities of 59.3m were offset by world would support demand for goods and services in general and 72.5m of net purchases of bonds.
There was a small decline in for energy in particular.
The failure of Lehman Brothers in September the amount in net current assets mainly consisting of cash but these 2008 demonstrated that one at least of these assumptions was remain in excess of the fair value of outstanding debt.
At the year incorrect, as the global financial system suffered something akin to a end, equities as a percentage of shareholders funds were 74% heart attack.
This seizure rapidly affected those areas of economic and equities and bonds together were 98%.
While both shares and activity most heavily reliant on the provision of credit, including bonds have fallen in price during the last year, and both fell rapidly global trade as well as the purchases of homes and consumer goods in the immediate aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the such as motor vehicles.
The result was an almost unprecedented market for corporate bonds of various types, including convertible contraction in real economic activity within a very short period, a bonds, has for most of the year seemed to be pricing in a more collapse in share prices and a breakdown of many parts of the disastrous outcome in terms of company failures than has been market for corporate bonds and similar securities.
Our portfolio was reflected in the price of many equities and, as a consequence, we incorrectly positioned for these moves and the poor performance in have been net buyers of bonds and net sellers of equities.
The sales September and October was the result.
The Managers Report on of equities involved repositioning the portfolio to reflect a much pages 6 to 8 contains more detail on the individual investments that bleaker outlook for investment spending than we had previously had the greatest positive and negative impact on performance.
We have, however, maintained a large position in oil service companies as, despite evidence of falling capital spending Earnings and Dividend in the oil and gas industry, many of the companies we hold have Earnings per share were 6.97p compared with 4.53p last year, relatively secure revenues based on contracts and order backlogs an increase of 53.9%, mainly as a result of increased income from and the decline rate of existing oil and gas fields means that bonds and shares and reduced management fees.
Earnings this investment can only be postponed.
We have, however, made some year and last include the recovery of VAT paid in previous years: changes in this area to reflect the more difficult environment for further information is included in note 21 to the financial statements.
Excluding the impact of the recovery of VAT from both periods, earnings per share were 6.50p and the increase over the previous An extreme period in financial markets is likely to throw up year was 53.7%.
opportunities to make investments at attractive prices owing to the presence of forced sellers and the absence of buyers.
We have Monks invests with the aim of achieving capital growth rather than made a number of opportunistic investments of this sort, some of income and all costs are charged to the Revenue Account.
As a Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
4 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 ChaIrMans sTaTeMenT which are explained in more detail in the Managers Portfolio This combination of measures appears to have helped to arrest the Review.
Not all of these have been successful, most notably we rate of economic contraction in much of the developed world and made some purchases of bank shares with very mixed results, but to have mitigated the impact of declining exports on the Chinese some have already generated attractive returns and we have a economy.
They may, however, be creating new problems of number of others which look promising.
unsustainably large budget deficits and accelerating inflation in the future.
Since the year end the proportion of the portfolio invested in equities has increased and at 10 June equities were 84% of shareholders AGM funds.
At the AGM the Company is putting forward resolutions to amend the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Further Discount and Buybacks information in respect of these resolutions can be found on pages 23 The discount at fair value narrowed from 10.0% to 7.3% over the and 24 of the Directors Report.
The Board considers the level of discount and I hope shareholders will come to the Annual General Meeting, has authorised the repurchase of shares when this will be of benefit which will be held on 4 August 2009 at 11.00am at the RSA see to continuing shareholders as well as being in the interest of those map on page 45.
Our manager will give a short presentation and shareholders who may not have the luxury of choosing the optimum there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
time to sell some or all of their shares.
During the year to 30 April 2009 2.0m was spent on the repurchase of 535,000 shares.
Since the power to buy back shares was first granted in 1999, 124.3m shares have been bought back and cancelled, representing 32% of the share capital at the start of that period.
The Board will continue to buy back shares if suitable opportunities appear.
James Ferguson 12 June 2009 Outlook Forecasting financial market returns over short time periods is difficult, and it is made more difficult than usual by the uncertain economic outlook, but based on current valuations there is some cause for optimism about prospective returns from equities and selected corporate bonds.
This optimism has, however, to be tempered by the prospect of falling earnings, dividend cuts and heavy issuance of new shares and government bonds.
Central Banks around the world have cut interest rates to extremely low levels and begun to print money in order to stabilise their banking systems.
Banks and insurance companies have also been recapitalised with taxpayers money and deposits and borrowings have been guaranteed by governments.
While bad debts continue to rise and it remains to be seen whether in all cases the amount of new capital injected will provide a sufficient cushion against future losses, these measures have helped to restore some stability and confidence in the banking system.
Banks have become more willing to lend to each other and runs on banks have been averted.
The ability and willingness of banks to lend varies greatly around the world and with governments now influencing lending decisions in favour of domestic borrowers this may well become an increasingly important determinant of relative economic success.
In this context some of the Emerging Markets, such as China and Brazil appear better placed than the United Kingdom or many other developed economies.
Many governments are also engaged on fiscal stimulus programmes at a time when tax revenues are falling and as a result government bond issuance is increasing at an unusually rapid rate.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 5
