Chairman's Statement Performance It is salutary to re-read my statement in last year's annual report.
There I suggested that 2009, economically, would be likely to be another difficult year, and that it was not clear how unloved markets would respond to continued bad news.
The collapse of Lehman Brothers shortly after the statement was written ensured that the immediate news was much worse than anything that I had anticipated.
It caused a period of acute instability in the global financial system, Patrick Cifford which for a time almost froze up, and subsequently led to a Chairman further sharp contraction in economic activity, caused both by fear and the unavailability of even the most conventional Highlights finance.
This combination in turn resulted in unprecedented Total Dividend increased by 2.8% to 27.75p action by authorities around the world in the form of both Net Asset Value Total Return -22.1 % fiscal and monetary policy responses.
Despite this action the Share Price Total Return -14.0% overall impact has clearly been severe on both companies and consumers alike.
Companies have been affected by rapidly falling demand and restricted credit while consumers have witnessed rising unemployment and diminishing housing wealth.
The overall effect was that the Company's Net Asset Value in total return terms fell by 22.1% compared with a fall in the FTSE-All Share Index of 20.5%.
The share price fell by 14.0% in total return terms as the discount narrowed substantially over the year.
The low point was reached on 3 March, with the index 36% down since the Company's year end at a time when it appeared that government action was having no effect.
Since then markets have improved considerably by 43% at the time of writing, of which 15% has happened since the Company's year end.
We have witnessed unparalleled attempts to revive the global economy.
The full impact of quantitative easing is, as yet, unclear.
However, as a signal that authorities are willing to take whatever action is necessary, it has been a successful experiment.
Policy actions do, of course, take time to work their way through the system.
However, recent economic data in the UK, which has now demonstrated falls in GDP for five successive quarters, does suggest that conditions have been slowly improving since the Spring, helped in part by the weakness of Sterling.
In spite of this, the recovery in the UK appears to lag behind most of the developed world, perhaps because of the relative importance of financial services to the U K economy.
Although it is likely that activity is now improving it remains at low levels compared to the past and there is a risk that indebtedness, both of consumers and governments will hamper growth considerably.
Across the market, earnings declined by approximately 20% over the Company's financial year with the Banks, Oil & Gas and Mining sectors suffering worst.
This translated into dividend falls of around 15% across the market, with the most pronounced impact among financial companies.
Unsurprisingly, the more defensive areas of the market, such 4 Murray Income Trust PLC as Tobacco and Pharmaceuticals outperformed, particularly of The Scottish Provident Group, and I am confident that his in the first nine months of the Company's year.
The experience will be useful to the Board's deliberations.
Company's underweight position in the Mining sector that had hurt performance relative to the Index last year, helped After ten years on the Board, Adrian Coats will not be seeking this year as commodity prices fell sharply.
Companies with re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
He has been a weaker balance sheets, opaque business models or more very effective member of the Board, and we have derived generally exposed to global economic activity performed great benefit from his chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
Numerous companies have had rights issues, He will be succeeded in that role by Humphrey van der Klugt, nearly all to shore up weak balance sheets.
The recovery who will also succeed him as Senior Independent Director.
since March has been led by the worst-performing, generally cyclical or financial, companies of the previous nine months.
VAT on management fees This was the result of the realisation that they were still It was noted in the previous Annual Report that HM Revenue going concerns and need not be priced for bankruptcy and & Customs had accepted the European Court of Justice ruling that business had stabilised and might even be improving.
regarding VAT on management fees paid by investment trusts.
In the last Half-Yearly Report, we reported that the Dividends Company had received a repayment of 1,555,612, As economic conditions deteriorated, company cashflows representing the VAT charged on our management fees have come under significant pressure and dividend growth between 2004 and 2007.
In accordance with the Company's across the market has turned negative.
Consensus dividend accounting policy, this sum has been credited 50% to expectations for calendar 2009 are for a fall of around 5% for revenue and 50% to capital.
In due course, we expect to be the market as a whole, although predictions are more severe able to recognise further sums, once there is greater for small and mid cap companies.
Income generation within certainty over the amounts recoverable by the Manager in the portfolio, over the past year, has benefited from the respect of the VAT incurred on management fees for the weakness of Sterling due to the number of companies that periods 2001 to 2003 and 1990 to 1996 and interest for all now pay dividends in US dollars, as well as a lower interest of these periods.
charge relating to the Company's debt.
The Directors are therefore proposing a final dividend of 11.25 pence per share Annual General Meeting payable on 28 October 2009 to Shareholders on the register The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Glasgow on 25 September 2009, making total dividends for the year Royal Concert Hall, 2 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G2 3NY on of 27.75 pence.
This represents an overall increase for the Tuesday, 27 October 2009 at 12.30 p. m. The Notice of year of 2.8%, the twenty-fourth consecutive year in which Annual General Meeting is on pages 59 to 62. the dividend has increased.
As at previous AGMs, there will be a presentation by the Looking forward, however, the Company will need to Managers, and an opportunity to meet the Directors over refinance its borrowings during the remainder of 2009 and lunch following the AGM.
this is likely to lead to a higher interest charge.
In addition, the appreciation of Sterling against the dollar over the last Outlook quarter has had a detrimental effect on our expectations for Since the financial year end we have seen a strong rise in the income generation.
These two factors, coupled with market.
There are undoubtedly good reasons for this: consensus expectations for zero dividend growth over this valuations are at least reasonable: macroeconomic data has financial year, have resulted in the Directors deciding to improved albeit from very low levels : and the narrowing of maintain the level of interim dividend payments at 5.5 spreads and the fall in the absolute level of corporate bond pence.
The rate of the final dividend will be decided when the yields have reflected a more healthy credit market.
results for the year are known.
However, the Directors currently expect total dividends for this year to be at least However, there are still reasons to be cautious and it would equal to those paid for the year ending 30 June 2009, not be surprising to see a period of consolidation given the although this is likely to mean that the Company has to draw recent market gains.
At some stage the extraordinary on its revenue reserves.
measures that we have seen to prop up the economy will need to end.
Interest rates are currently at exceptionally low Board changes levels.
Public sector debt has soared, and the requirement for During the year, David Woods was appointed to the Board, fiscal tightening will act as a significant drag on economic and will seek election at the Annual General Meeting.
He has activity as taxes rise, and the growth in public spending is had a long career in the life assurance and investment reduced.
For companies, the shortage of reasonably priced, management industries, latterly as Group Managing Director long-term bank finance will also act as a drag on growth.
Murray Income Trust PLC 5 Chairman's Statement continued Global imbalances add to the uncertainties in the medium term.
Although disparities in current account positions have narrowed, this represents a change in demand for consumer and capital goods.
Surplus countries will need to increase private domestic consumption and deficit countries need to save more on an endurable basis, otherwise significant asset price corrections will remain a risk.
It is not yet clear whether the Chinese will react with the same enthusiasm to credit cards as shown by British or American consumers.
This all leads me to suspect that we will witness a relatively mild and slow rather than sharp recovery.
Under these circumstances, the outlook for earnings growth and thus dividends is likely to remain difficult, with consequent pressure on overall index levels and potential rewards to stock selection.
Although the ability to write options for which the premia can be accounted for as income provides an additional method to increase income, the Company's revenue account is likely to remain under pressure.
However, the Company maintains a substantial revenue reserve that should provide a source of support in these challenging times.
Patrick Cifford Chairman 15 September 2009 6 Murray Income Trust PLC
