Chairmans Statement guarantees Governments bestowed on highly leveraged institutions.
Investors risk appetite returned in a major way, sending stock markets higher from oversold levels in March.
Whilst high double-digit returns from the United States and the UK sat uncomfortably with deteriorating fiscal fundamentals, the same could not be said of the Emerging World.
Certain Latin American and Asian equity markets produced spectacular returns.
Fortified by surplus savings, J F H Trott healthy banking systems and recovering economic growth, Chairman equity investors had good reason to feel comfortable with evolving fundamentals.
Given the consistent corporate Highlights earnings and dividend growth produced in these regions, Net Asset Value Total Return of 28.6% market recoveries were not unexpected, although the Benchmark Total Return of 22.5% magnitude of individual returns was surprisingly strong.
Total proposed dividend increased by 16.4% versus 2008 Global diversification and emphasis on strong corporate Shares trading at a premium to net asset value per Ordinary fundamentals enabled the Trust to fulfil its investment share for most of the year objectives of capital and income growth, which was 33m of new shares issued at a premium during the year satisfying considering the generally hostile corporate environment which prevailed.
Performance Dividends I am pleased to report that the total return on net asset value during the year was 28.6%, ahead of the return on The wide geographical spread of the portfolio has also the benchmark index of 22.5%.
The share price total return contributed to strong revenue growth which would not have was 35.2% reflecting a tightening in the discount.
The been the case had the portfolio been concentrated in the UK Investment Managers Review in the Annual Report contains where dividends overall fell, particularly in the financial an attribution analysis which shows the factors affecting net sector.
We were able to increase the level of the three asset performance.
Key positive influences were significant interim dividends that have been paid to 5.6p 2008: 4.8p.
overweights in Asia ex Japan and Latin America.
The large Your Board is now recommending a final dividend of 10.2p underweighting in the United States contributed positively to 2008: 8.8p which, subject to the approval of shareholders at relative outperformance, while strong stock selection in the the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 14 May 2010 to UK enhanced capital returns.
shareholders on the register on 9 April 2010.
Subject to the approval of the final dividend, the total dividend for the year Background will amount to 27p, an increase of 16.4% from last year 2008: 23.2p.
B Ordinary shares will receive their 2009 proved to be an exceptionally eventful year for global capitalisation issue of B Ordinary shares at the same time as financial markets.
Patience, resolve and steady nerves were each dividend is paid.
Accordingly, subject to approval at the required in abundance as Governments and Global Central Annual General Meeting, B Ordinary shareholders will be Banks were faced with serious macro-economic imbalances.
issued on 14 May 2010 with new B Ordinary shares Unprecedented measures were taken particularly in the equivalent in Net Asset Value to the recommended final monetary field the most notable of which was the increase in dividend for the year just ended.
the money in circulation through quantitative easing.
With the global financial system very fragile and many leading Gearing economies in recession, such measures were justified as being essential for survival.
Deteriorating budget deficits In the Half Yearly Report I mentioned that we had increased were a constant feature throughout the year as the Bank of the proportion of net assets invested in equities to 106% England ensured that additional liquidity was put into the from 97% at the beginning of the year.
We were using our financial system.
Bank balance sheets were repaired, bad gearing to support investment in both bonds and equities debts began to be restructured, and confidence was restored.
with our cash reduced to just over 3%.
Following the rise in But at what future cost?
Little regard was paid to the markets, we reduced the effective gearing somewhat so that enormous expense of this exercise, but it is clear those at 31 December 2009 the proportion invested in equities had countries worst effected will be paying the price for many come down to 104% with cash rising to 4%.
The journey back to fiscal rectitude could prove long and painful.
Such longer term reality was of no For some time your Board has been considering the options concern to stock markets, however.
Equity investors in regard to the loan of approximately 55.9 million which welcomed the additional liquidity and the implicit forms part of our gearing and which expires next month.
An 4 Murray International Trust PLC announcement will be made as soon as a course of action Annual General Meeting and the resolutions to be proposed has been decided upon.
at that meeting and at separate Class Meetings of the Ordinary and B Ordinary shareholders.
The proposed changes to the Articles will be described in greater detail in the Issue of New Shares circular.
At the Annual General Meeting held in April 2009 shareholders authorised Directors to issue up to 10% of the Outlook Companys issued share capital for cash at a premium to the prevailing asset value at the time of each issue.
During the Investment decisions taken in late 2008 and early 2009 year 5 million new Ordinary shares or approximately 5.6% of ensured that the Trusts portfolio has been heavily exposed our capital were issued under this authority.
The weighted to equities during the past twelve months of rising markets.
average premium of all the shares issued during the year is This proved very beneficial for relative performance and approximately 2.1%, resulting in a modest enhancement to outright capital gains.
The issue now is whether current net asset value for existing shareholders.
Given the equity valuations can be sustained by rising earnings and continuing demand for the Companys shares the Board will dividends or whether expectations have become unrealistic.
be seeking approval from shareholders to renew this There can be no denying that structural imbalances in the US authority for 2010.
As in previous years, new shares will only and UK will likely restrain growth for some considerable be issued at a premium to net asset value in order to avoid period.
Against this backdrop profits and dividends may diluting the asset values of existing shareholders.
Resolutions struggle to support current valuations.
Conversely, many to this effect will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting companies exposed to emerging markets continue to prosper and the Directors strongly encourage shareholders to support because the countries in which they operate remain genuine this proposal.
Here valuations relative to prospects are not stretched and offer good potential investment returns.
Whilst the overall case for equities may not be as compelling Directorate as it was before the recent rise in markets, sufficient As I advised shareholders in the Half Yearly Report, following opportunities still exist to justify maintaining current equity the retirement of David Benson at the last AGM, the Board exposure over the medium term.
was very pleased to appoint Dr Kevin Carter as an independent non-executive Director of the Company in April 2009.
Dr Carter has had a very successful career in investment both within asset management and as an adviser J F H Trott to pension funds and has brought valuable expertise to the Chairman Board.
A resolution to approve Dr Carters election to the 22 February 2010 Board will be submitted to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting This years Annual General Meeting will be held in Glasgow on Friday 30 April 2010 at 12.30 p. m. in the Strathclyde Suite of the Glasgow Royal Concert Hall.
As at previous AGMs, there will be a presentation from the Manager and an opportunity to meet the Directors and Manager and ask questions.
I would be grateful if you would confirm your attendance by completing the notice that will accompany the Annual Report and returning it together with an indication of any particular questions that you would like to ask.
Circular This year the Directors are proposing to make further amendments to the Companys Articles of Association to reflect the final changes required as a result of the staged implementation of the Companies Act 2006 and the introduction of the Shareholders Rights Directive.
Accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts shareholders will receive a circular which incorporates the Notice of Murray International Trust PLC 5
