14 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Norman Murray Chairman First oil from Rajasthan in north west India commenced in August 2009 with evacuation by trucking.
This event marked a significant moment in Cairns development.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009 15 CORPORATE OVERVIEW GREENLAND The substantial and growing resource base in Rajasthan will The Groups strong financial position has allowed it to build a allow the Group to generate sustainable long-term cash flows strategic early entry position in the frontier basins of Greenland, once evacuation of sales crude by pipeline commences this year.
a country which Cairn believes has the necessary geological ingredients for exploration success.
This is the first year of Cairn has built a strong business platform which will provide what is intended to be a three year exploration campaign funds to enable the Group to: drilling in various basins offshore Greenland, which could have t reinvest in Rajasthan to optimise development of transformational potential.
Whilst recognising that the chances the resource base: of success are relatively low in such frontier areas, we look t support exploration programmes in Greenland: and forward to the results of the summer 2010 drilling programme.
t provide flexibility for additional growth opportunities.
Cairn recognises that its activities can have an impact on the INDIA environment.
In this regard it has policies and procedures in place that seek to avoid impacts wherever it operates, and these The Rajasthan project has been a massive undertaking.
are implemented in accordance with international regulatory At the peak of construction last year, approximately 16,000 requirements.
The Company has an established track record people were involved in building the MPT site, the gas and of corporate responsibility initiatives in South Asia and will water processing facilities and the pipeline, making this project continue to adopt the same approach wherever it operates.
one of the biggest oil and gas production developments in Cairn has submitted Social and Environmental Impact India for many years.
Assessments SIA EIA to the Government of Greenland as part of the drilling approval process.
The honourable Indian Prime Minister, Dr Manmohan Singh, inaugurated First Oil from Mangala in August 2009.
The initial BOARD production is being taken by road tankers to the coast and shipped to refineries pending the commissioning of the Hamish Grossart has decided, after 16 years on the Board, pipeline.
The main pipeline infrastructure is now in place not to seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting on and testing and commissioning is underway.
Hamish was appointed to the Board in 1994 crude oil volumes are scheduled to be pumped through the and has been Deputy Chairman of the Company since 1996. continuously heated and insulated facility during Q2 2010.
His business acumen and insight has been hugely beneficial to the Board over many years.
Mark Tyndall, who has also With development of the Mangala, Bhagyam and Aishwariya decided not to seek re-election, has provided invaluable MBA fields well underway, the focus for planning purposes support and incisive input, and stands down after seven has shifted more towards realising the full potential of the basin.
In this process, unlocking the value of the Enhanced Oil Recovery EOR and the other fields including the Barmer Hill is of prime The Company plans to appoint two new independent importance.
The current Government of India GoI approved non-executive directors in the near future as replacements plateau production level for the MBA fields is 175,000 barrels of for Mr Grossart and Mr Tyndall.
Our goal is to demonstrate that the resource base can support potential production up to 240,000 bopd.
OUTLOOK Cairn is well positioned for future growth.
Working effectively with government and partners is fundamental wherever we operate but the complexity of The phased delivery of the Rajasthan project and development the Rajasthan development has meant such co-operation is of the growing resource base will continue to remain our prime even more essential to achieve success.
All parties working focus for a number of years.
together have already delivered a clear message that India provides both the opportunity and the required support Having built a strong sustainable cash generative position to create world-class developments.
in India, we will continue to offer transformational potential as we explore the frontier basins of Greenland.
