mANAGEmENT STATEmENTS cHAIRmANS STATEmENT Our new Chairman reflects on a challenging year for the Group Following a year of fide-risking the balance sheet, the Board and management are aligned in the goal of simplifying the Group structure and improving performance.
Our international savings business is critical to achieving long-term growth and will be a special focus as we progress with implementing our strategy.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR STRATEGY p13 Patrick OSullivan Chairman I am privileged to have joined Old Mutual plc as its new Chairman at a pivotal point in its long history.
You can rest assured that I and my fellow Board members are focused on delivering enhanced value to all our shareholders and building strong relationships of trust with our key stakeholders.
8 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Board is pleased that we can now begin again to reward our many shareholders 1.5p who have remained loyal to the Company with a final dividend of 1.5p per share On behalf of my Board colleagues, I would like to Overview of 2009 express our appreciation for all the dedication of Following the turmoil in global financial markets in the Groups employees during 2009 and for the 2008, 2009 was a difficult year for financial services resilience and commitment they showed during one companies, reflecting the recessionary environment of the most difficult years in the Groups history.
that prevailed in many of the worlds major economies.
Despite this, the Company achieved Dividend adjusted operating earnings per share on an IFRS We are pleased that the Companys improved capital basis of 12.1p, which compared to 14.9p in the prior position has enabled the Board to recommend a year.
I believe this was a very acceptable result in dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of these difficult circumstances.
While there are non- 1.5p per share or its equivalent in other applicable cash charges such as that arising on the revaluation currencies to be paid on 25 June 2010, subject of our own debt which gave rise to a reported net to approval by shareholders at the Annual General loss, overall the Company has improved its financial Meeting AGM in May.
The Board is pleased that strength and increased its IFRS book value from we have been able to resume payment of a dividend 134p per share to 147p per share.
and that we can now begin again to reward our many shareholders who have remained loyal to the Board Company during this difficult period.
Chris Collins retired as Chairman at the end of 2009, having served on the Board since the original listing AGM 2010 of the Company in 1999.
We are very grateful to This years AGM will be held at our offices in London him for his contribution and wish him a happy and on Thursday, 13 May 2010.
In response to requests fulfilling retirement.
from some of our South African shareholders, we are also arranging this year for the AGM to be webcast.
Mike Arnold joined the Board as an independent There is also an opportunity for shareholders, non-executive director in September and also if they wish, to submit questions ahead of that immediately became a member of our Group Audit meeting, which will be dealt with during the AGM.
His actuarial expertise is a The Notice relating to our AGM enclosed with valuable addition to the Boards skills, following his this Report includes further details of the webcast role as Chairman of the International Association arrangements, and the various resolutions to of Consulting Actuaries and Principal Consulting be proposed and the procedure for submitting Actuary and Head of Life practice at Milliman.
questions ahead of the Meeting.
From April 2010, we are splitting the Group Audit and Risk Committee into separate Audit and Future Risk Committees, in line with recommendations Following a year of fide-risking the balance sheet, contained in the Walker Review, and Mike has kindly the Board and management are aligned in the goal agreed to take on the Chairmanship of the newly of simplifying the Group structure and improving established Risk Committee.
We expect this new performance.
Our international savings business committee will play an important role in ensuring that is critical to achieving long-term growth and will be risk matters continue to be appropriately addressed a special focus as we progress with implementing at Board level.
The Board conducted a self-assessment exercise during 2009 in conjunction with external facilitators Patrick OSullivan and one of my first tasks will be to ensure that the Chairman findings from this are implemented.
There are also 11 March 2010 other increasingly onerous expectations of boards of banks and other financial institutions that I will address during the coming year.
Old Mutual plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Shareholder information Financials Governance Risk and Responsibility Business review Management statements Fast read
