GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 - 42 10 12 09 16:01 Page 5 Chairmans statement In a year which has seen a deep UK recession and continuing CAPITAL MANAGEMENT turmoil in credit and banking markets, the Group has fared well and emerged strongly as a result of a business strategy Free cash flow, generated by the special purpose vehicles, has established well before the current crisis took hold: a match been strong during the year, leading to an increase in free cash funded, fully securitised book: a high credit quality loan portfolio: balances to 84.0 million 30 September 2008: 73.2 million.
These balances, together with net cash receipts going forward, will serve as core capital to support future lending initiatives.
During the year ended 30 September 2009 the Group earned a profit of 54.3 million before taxation and after exceptional gains Consistent with our aim to follow a progressive dividend policy, on debt repurchase and the charges for impairment and losses on the Company has declared a final dividend for the year of 2.2p fair valued hedge instruments 2008: 53.7 million.
Underlying per share which, when added to the interim dividend, makes a profit, before exceptional and fair value items, was 45.3 million total dividend of 3.3p per share.
The Company will keep under for the year 2008: 66.9 million.
review the appropriate level of capital for the business as the current economic cycle progresses and will maintain sufficient Earnings per share were 13.9p 2008: 17.9p, the reduction from cash flow to enable the Group to meet its operational last year resulting from the inclusion for the entire period of the requirements and strategic development objectives.
increase in share capital from the rights issue in February 2008.
We will be proposing at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting During the year the Groups activities have been managed in a special resolution seeking authority from shareholders for the accordance with three clear strategic objectives: the protection of Company to purchase up to 29.9 million of its own shares.
It is the embedded value of the business by close management of the customary for companies to seek such authority but we would not loan portfolio: the development of new sources of recurring expect to utilise the authority unless, in the light of market income using the skills and resources of the business: and conditions prevailing at the time, we consider that to do so would positioning the business to enable new lending to recommence enhance earnings per share and would be in the best interests of when funding capacity returns to the market at commercial terms.
The Board has no current intention of using this authority.
Good progress has been made in all three areas during the year.
The loan portfolio has continued to perform well, the business having been quick to react to the changing environment to ensure optimal performance of the book.
Following a sharp, industryBOARD CHANGES wide increase in first mortgage arrears rates in the final quarter of On 25 February 2009 the Board was pleased to announce the 2008, arrears reduced over the second half of the financial year, appointment of Alan Fletcher as a non-executive director.
Alan the peak in impairments having arisen in the first half of the year.
Fletcher has considerable experience in financial services, New sources of income have been created, including third party including pension fund trusteeship and investment fund servicing, portfolio acquisition and ancillary business management.
He was Chairman of Neville James Holdings prior developments.
The past six months have also seen significant to its acquisition by Challenger International of Australia, improvements in wholesale funding markets, with funding following which he was Sales and Marketing Director of spreads having tightened sufficiently to allow the reopening of Challenger Group Services and a director of Challenger Life UK the residential mortgage backed securities market, first by Lloyds from 2002 to 2003.
Since 2000 he has been non-executive Banking Group and then by Nationwide Building Society.
Whilst Chairman of Hyperama plc and, since 2003, Chairman of Fresh these are early days in the recovery of the securitisation market, Professional Development Limited, which specialises in these developments are positive.
delivering financial and business skills courses to the legal sector.
In view of the stable funding position for the existing portfolio, the In 2007 he was elected to the General Synod of the Church of associated strong operational cash flow and in line with the England and in 2009 was elected to the Pensions Board of the progressive dividend policy outlined last year, the Board has Church of England.
declared a final dividend of 2.2p per share 2008: 2.0p which, when added to the interim dividend of 1.1p, gives a total dividend of 3.3p per share for the year 2008: 3.0p.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 11 February 2010, the dividend will be paid on 15 February 2010, by reference to a record date of 15 January 2010.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 5 GRP4385 - Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1 - 42 10 12 09 16:01 Page 6 C In November 2008 we announced that, as a result of a restructuring of Board responsibilities, the role of Chief Operating Officer had been removed with the consequential loss of Pawan Pandya from the Company.
Pawan was a loyal and committed member of the team and we thank him for his considerable contribution over his many years of service.
In February 2009 David Beever, a non executive director, retired from the Board.
We thank David for his help and support over the years of his association with the Company.
STAFF The excellent progress we have made during the year would not have been achieved without the hard work and dedication of our staff and my fellow directors.
I thank them all for their efforts.
OUTLOOK The Group has significantly strengthened its position during the year and enters the new financial year well capitalised, with shareholders funds of 650.8 million, the loan portfolio match funded to maturity, no debt maturing until 2017 and a strong cash position.
We have remained profitable in a year when many of our competitors have failed, retaining a highly competent management team that has dealt effectively and successfully with the difficult economic and trading conditions encountered in recent years.
Whilst recovery from the recession is likely to be slow, with UK unemployment likely to continue to rise and the possibility of further reversals occurring in the housing market, the Group has strong foundations to underpin future growth and we are ready to face with confidence the challenges in advancing the Groups prospects to add further value for shareholders.
ROBERT G DENCH Chairman 24 November 2009 6 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC
