PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Review of the Year The stockmarket volatility that began in the second half of the last financial year continued and worsened into the year under review, to the extent that calendar year 2008 saw the second biggest fall in the UK stockmarket in the last 100 years.
The primary causes of this decline are by now well known.
The Company was not immune to these influences and its diluted net asset value NAV fell by 23.7%, while the Companys chosen benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index total return fell by 29.3%.
During the year, the Companys share price fell by 23.1%, reflecting the high volatility in the market which resulted in a narrowing of the discount to NAV at which the shares were traded.
Outlook It is perhaps too early to look for results from the Governments recent measures to resuscitate the economy.
Further periods of market volatility may reasonably be expected in the remainder of the current calendar year.
However, our investment manager took good advantage of the earlier market falls to acquire holdings in sound companies at attractive valuations and it can therefore be expected that the full benefit of these prudent actions will be enjoyed by the Company as and when the recovery becomes more sustained.
Dividend An increased first interim dividend of 3.3p 2008: 3.1p was paid to shareholders on 29 December 2008.
The Directors are pleased to declare a second interim dividend of 5.2p 2008: 4.7p.
In addition, a special dividend of 0.84p in respect of the recovery of VAT on management fees detailed below will be paid, giving total dividends payable for the year of 9.34p 2008: 7.8p, an increase in the total dividend for the year of 19.7% 9% excluding the special dividend.
The second interim and special dividends will be paid on 9 July 2009 to shareholders registered on 19 June 2009.
The Boards aim is for the Company to maintain its policy of real dividend growth.
Gearing Actual gearing of the Company was 17% at the year end 2008:17%.
The Boards policy is to allow gearing up to a level of 25%.
Subscription Share Exercise During the year under review, subscription shareholders had their second opportunity to exercise their right to subscribe for one ordinary share of the Company at a price of 218.94p.
The subscription period ended on 31 August 2008.
As a result, 46,099 shares were allotted on 11 September 2008.
Subscription shareholders will have further opportunities to convert their holdings in each of the years 2009 to 2013.
Issued Share Capital The issued share capital of the Company at the time of writing is 208,404,620 ordinary shares of 10p each and 17,720,924 subscription shares.
During the year the rating of the Companys shares remained high and occasionally, its shares traded at a premium to net asset value.
At times, demand for shares exceeded supply and your Company responded to two requests for issues of new shares totalling 400,000 in November 2008.
It also supplied the Invesco Perpetual ISA Scheme with a further 728,540 new shares in December to satisfy the demands of those investors re-investing their dividends.
VAT on Management Fees Following the European Court of Justice ruling that investment trusts should be regarded as special investment funds, no VAT is payable by investment trusts on management fees.
The Manager has been liaising with HM Revenue & Customs to recover on the Companys behalf VAT paid in the past on fees.
As a result, 5,250,000 was recovered after the year end from HM Revenue & Customs for the period 2001 to 2007.
This has been paid in full to the Company and accordingly has been credited 979,000 to revenue and 4,273,000 to capital, in the same proportion as originally charged to the income statement.
In addition, estimated interest thereon of 772,000 has been recognised in revenue.
These amounts added 2.9 pence per share to the net asset value, of which 0.84 pence was revenue which will be distributed as a special dividend.
The Board is in discussions with the Manager in relation to additional refunds of VAT and interest thereon for various periods.
However, as the amounts involved and the timing of receipts are uncertain, no provision has been made in these accounts.
06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Corporate Governance The Board remains committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to you as shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The Directors believe that, during the period under review, they have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance as endorsed by the Financial Reporting Council, save in respect of matters discussed in the Corporate Governance statements contained on pages 27 to 32.
Annual General Meeting AGM At the AGM there are four items of Special Business to be proposed: Share Issuance 1.
Your Directors are seeking the usual authority to issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,946,820 a third of the Companys issued share capital as at 8 June 2009 in new ordinary shares.
This will allow Directors to issue shares within the prescribed limits should any favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of shareholders.
This authority will expire at the AGM in 2010.
Your Directors are also seeking the usual authority to issue new ordinary shares pursuant to a rights issue or otherwise than in accordance with a rights issue of up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,315,606 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at 8 June 2009 of new ordinary shares disapplying pre-emption rights.
This will allow shares to be issued to new shareholders without their having to be offered to existing shareholders first, thus potentially broadening the shareholder base of the Company.
This authority will not be exercised at a price below Net Asset Value so that the interests of existing shareholders are not diluted and will expire at the AGM in 2010.
Share Buy Backs and Treasury Shares 3.
Your Directors are seeking to renew the authority to buy back up to 31,239,852 shares 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at 8 June 2009, subject to the restrictions referred to in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM.
Your Directors are proposing that shares repurchased by the Company be either cancelled or, alternatively, held as treasury shares with a view to their resale if appropriate or cancellation.
The holding of treasury shares is restricted to 10% of the Companys issued share capital and any resale of them will only take place on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders.
Notice Period for General Meetings 4.
It is expected that the EU Shareholder Rights Directive, when it is brought into force, will increase the notice period for general meetings of companies to 21 days unless certain conditions are met in which case it may be 14 days notice.
A shareholders resolution is required to ensure that the Companys general meetings other than Annual General Meetings may continue to be held on 14 days notice.
Accordingly, Special Resolution 11 will propose that the period of notice for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall be not less than 14 clear days notice.
I am delighted to tell you that Bob Yerbury was appointed to the Board in December 2008.
Bob, a qualified actuary, has had a long and distinguished career in investment management.
He is currently Chief Investment Officer of Invesco Perpetual.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, he will stand for election at this years AGM.
The Directors who will retire by rotation and stand for re-election at this years AGM are Sir Martyn Arbib, Antony Hardy and myself.
James DAlbiac has decided to stand down from the Board and will not seek re-election at the AGM.
James has served as a Director for the last thirteen years, recently as Senior Independent Director.
His wisdom and sharp intellect will be much missed and I would like to thank him for all his diligence and hard work on behalf of the Company.
Antony Hardy will take Jamess place as Senior Independent Director.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Board and the Manager for helping to see the Company through one of the most difficult periods for investment that most people can remember.
The AGM of the Company will be held at The Lanesborough, Hyde Park Corner, London SW1X 7TA on 8 July 2009 at 12.00 noon.
I do hope that as many shareholders as possible are able to attend.
This will be an opportunity not only to meet the Directors, but also to hear the views of Mark Barnett, who is the investment manager at Invesco Perpetual with the day-to-day responsibility for managing the Companys portfolio.
