Chairmans report Review of the year government is held by international Most equity investors suffered heavy losses investors that Sterling should have been one during the last financial year.
What of the weakest major currencies over the last appeared at first to be a crisis of liquidity twelve months.
Fortunately, the decision by rapidly deteriorated into one where the our fund managers to reduce greatly our solvency of much of the financial system exposure to the UK over recent years has came into question.
Despite exceptional and meant that currency gains have helped to coordinated intervention around the world, ameliorate the very material losses that our the global economy plunged into a portfolio has experienced in local currency recession which, in many countries, has been terms.
Over the financial year, Sterling fell by unprecedented in the scale and speed of the 25% against the US dollar and by 30% collapse in economic activity.
Indeed, so rapid against the Japanese Yen.
and intense has been the deterioration in The other positive influence in a very the business climate that many companies difficult year has been the strong relative have found it impossible to adjust their performance of the technology sector.
While operating costs rapidly enough to avoid a the demand for technology based products dramatic decline in earnings.
For most of our and services has been hard hit by the onset financial year, investors were in disorderly of recession, the sector has benefited from retreat and, at times most notably two factors.
First, technology companies following the collapse of Lehman Brothers tend to be cash rich and have been there has been little faith in the security of restrained in their use of leverage to any investment and, unsurprisingly, none at enhance returns.
Secondly, the industry has all in the moral rectitude of the banking demonstrated tight cost management and is industry popularly perceived to have led the correctly perceived to be an early beneficiary world into this crisis.
of any improvement in demand that may Rather than add to the voluminous be generated by the aggressive monetary commentary on the origins and development and fiscal expansion now underway.
of this economic disaster, I will confine Over our financial year, technology shares myself to the observation that no amount of strongly outperformed the broad market in creativity on the part of financial engineers both the USA and Europe.
Your Companys can indefinitely prolong a state of affairs net asset value per share fell by 4.4% which where consumption materially exceeds outperformed both the Dow Jones World income.
The negligence of the political elites Technology Index and the FTSE World Index in the developed world in encouraging their which fell 5.5% and 18.2% in Sterling terms electorates to believe otherwise has respectively.
Our NAV performance over this provided an opportunity for a rapacious but difficult period also compares favourably highly imaginative body of professional with most technology and all major market financiers to extend this fundamental indices.
This result was helped by our disequilibrium far beyond reason.
We are increased US weighting, by our limited now paying for the consequences.
exposure to European and Japanese smaller The United Kingdom has been one of the companies and by retaining some cash in most profligate players in this folly and it is a the portfolio during the second half of our testament to the esteem in which our financial year.
There was also an uplift of ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 3 Chairmans report continued 1.6p per share to NAV as a result of our Outlook AGM repurchase of just over six million shares at Difficult though the conditions ahead may The Companys annual general meeting will discounts to NAV ranging from 14% to be, we take some comfort from our be held on 29 July and as last year it will be 28% and the Company also benefited from investment specialisation.
In a world where at the Royal Automobile Club.
I hope that a VAT refund of nearly 1.3m including sustainable economic and earnings growth shareholders will take the opportunity to interest for the period 2000-2007, may be materially less than over the last two attend and hear our investment managers equivalent to 1 p per share in NAV terms.
decades, genuine growth stocks a presentation and meet the Board.
category in which technology shares are well Equity markets have bounced back from their Richard Wakeling represented should fare relatively well, early March lows which were reached amidst 11 June 2009 reflecting their superior relative earnings widespread gloom and fears that the recession growth.
Moreover, technology is and will could spiral downwards into a prolonged remain a key factor in tackling many of our depression.
According to a number of surveys, worlds greatest challenges: the need for investor sentiment at that time reached increased productivity in a slower growing levels of pessimism that exceeded any economy: the needs of the aging population recorded in the last twenty years.
There has of the developed world: climate change and been much debate about the sustainability resource shortages: and the growing of the rally in share prices since the March challenges of personal and public security.
Where the bulls see the green shoots Moreover the technology industry will be of recovery, the bears see a toxic mountain addressing those opportunities from a of debt that will stifle any but the most position of exceptional financial strength modest economic progress.
As the current and with many valuable lessons learned economic environment has few precedents, during the hard years that followed the end the debate promises to rage for some time.
We are encouraged by We believe that March marked a sentiment the sectors performance over the last year low and that the deceleration in the pace of and, while short term sentiment towards the economic deterioration may yet evolve into industry suggests a period of more subdued a cyclical upturn albeit one of questionable relative performance, we are optimistic strength and duration.
The global economy about the longer-term outlook for our has received an unprecedented stimulus chosen specialist area.
from government actions although The Board has decided that in view of undoubtedly the degree of leverage that developments in the technology market it preceded it necessitated dramatic action.
It would be desirable to enhance the would be surprising if we were not to see Companys geographical investment some degree of economic stabilisation but flexibility.
Consequently, within the overall the medium term outlook remains very maximum exposure limit of 100% of the unclear and the question of whether the portfolio to any one market, we have politicians have simply postponed yet adjusted the market parameters guidance again a greater day of reckoning remains to allow for up to 85% hitherto 75% of unanswered.
The markets ahead are going the portfolio to be in North America.
to be very challenging and we need to be even more alert than usual.
4 Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC
