Directors report: Overview Chairmans statement 03 John van Kuffeler Chairman Maintaining the flow of credit through turbulent times The groups strategy is focused on lending responsibly and maintaining the flow of small-sum, unsecured credit to non-standard consumers who are typically less able to access credit from other lenders and may otherwise face financial exclusion.
existing customers exhibited increasingly Group results cautious behaviour during 2009 The group has produced a solid which tempered demand for credit and performance in 2009, as a result of the was exacerbated by the adverse weather careful management of growth, conditions during the peak trading weeks impairment and costs against the backdrop in December.
As planned, the rate of growth in customer The investments made towards the numbers in both businesses has been end of 2008 in creating an additional slower than in 2008.
Underwriting criteria 120 field management roles to increase were tightened further in the first half of the home credit collections capacity and the year in order to maintain credit quality in expanding contact centre capacity at during a period when the economy was Vanquis Bank have proved to be the right deteriorating quite sharply.
During the approach to managing through these second half of the year, the pressure difficult market conditions.
As a result, on customers incomes from a weak both businesses have maintained good employment market did not abate and collections performances during 2009. both businesses maintained a tight stance on the granting of credit.
In addition, Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Overview 04 Chairmans statement continued The market test of Real Personal Finance Management have carefully positioned has been completed and a decision made the groups businesses since the middle to focus direct repayment business solely of 2007 in anticipation of a material on known prospects generated through deterioration in the economic the home credit branch network and environment.
Underwriting standards have customer database.
been progressively tightened to maintain credit quality which, together with the Group profit before tax and exceptional investments made to enhance collections costs was up 1.0% to 130.1m 2008: capacity, have been successful in 128.8m and basic earnings per share, mitigating the impact of the deteriorating as adjusted for exceptional costs, was economic environment on the groups 71.4p 2008: 70.9p.
The groups funding and liquidity positions The groups planning assumptions do not have been further enhanced, with the anticipate that employment conditions balance sheet showing modest gearing will improve for some time.
Accordingly, in comparison to bank covenants and a a tight stance to underwriting will be significant surplus of regulatory capital.
The group has successfully diversified its funding sources during 2009 through the During the second half of 2009, there issue of its 250m 10-year senior bonds.
was an increase in the level of caution Undrawn committed bank facilities at the exhibited by some consumers who are year end amounted to 331.0m.
The experiencing pressure on their household group has also recently entered into incomes and face uncertainty over their forward-starting arrangements which future prospects.
This increased caution, extend syndicated bank facilities totalling exacerbated by adverse weather 380m to May 2013 and has ample conditions in the run-up to Christmas, tempered the demand for credit from funding to execute its growth plans and established home credit customers during meet contractual maturities for at least the peak fourth quarter trading period.
Cautious consumer behaviour is expected to persist through 2010, resulting in The proposed final dividend is maintained relatively modest growth in receivables.
at 38.1p per share 2008: 38.1p reflecting As a result, there will be a strong focus on the companys policy set out at the time cost efficiency.
of the demerger to at least maintain a full-year payment of 63.5p per share whilst The competitive landscape for home credit moving to a target payout ratio of 80% providers has remained largely unchanged of post-tax profit in the medium term.
Whilst Provident Financial continues to Market conditions be the largest operator in this segment, The groups strategy is focused on there are some 500 other home credit lending responsibly and maintaining businesses that compete actively, many of the flow of small-sum unsecured credit whom operate in a single town or region.
to non-standard consumers who are typically less able to access credit from In contrast, most businesses which other lenders and may otherwise face operated in the direct repayment or credit financial exclusion.
card segment of the UK non-standard lending market have either failed, Household incomes in those segments of withdrawn or restructured.
This presents the non-standard lending market served a strong market opportunity for Vanquis by the groups businesses have been and Bank as an established participant in the remain under pressure from the impact non-standard credit card market.
At of rising unemployment and, more present, the direct repayment unsecured importantly, under-employment resulting lending market has become dislocated by from restrictions on working hours and the collapse of the primary broker wage rates.
distribution channel and it is apparent from the market test of Real Personal The groups funding and Finance that many potential customers are carrying far too much debt.
Accordingly, liquidity positions have direct repayment loans will be restricted been further enhanced, with to customers already known through the home credit branch network.
the balance sheet showing modest gearing.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report: Overview Chairmans statement 05 continued Regulation Vanquis Bank is generating excellent The group is assisting with the Office growth and strong returns which leave of Fair Tradings review of the 35bn it well placed to achieve its target of a The group has reported a high-cost consumer credit market which 30% post-tax return on equity by the it announced in July 2009.
The review, end of 2010. solid performance in 2009 which covers a broad range of lending against the backdrop of activities of which home credit represents Overall, the groups balance sheet and less than 5%, published its interim liquidity are extremely sound and it has pressure on customers findings in December 2009 and is positioned itself to deliver good quality household budgets.
expected to conclude in April 2010. growth for 2010 in market conditions that are unlikely to improve in the near term.
The EU Directive on Consumer Credit has to be implemented in the UK by 31 January 2011.
The regulations are still John van Kuffeler in draft form but the group has already Chairman commenced work to ensure it is able to 2 March 2010 comply with the new requirements by the implementation date.
The Department for Business Innovation and Skills is nearing its conclusion of the consultation on the future regulation of credit and store cards.
The measures being debated centre upon transparency and putting the customer in control.
Vanquis Bank is working closely with the UK Cards Association which is leading the industrys response to the consultation.
Outlook The group has reported a solid performance in 2009 against the backdrop of pressure on customers household budgets from rising unemployment and reduced working hours.
The groups plans assume that these conditions will continue during 2010 and credit standards will be maintained to underpin the quality of new lending.
In 2010, the Consumer Credit Division is planning for relatively low receivables growth coupled with tight cost control.
Accordingly, the business has recently implemented an efficiency programme across its central functions whilst leaving field collections and arrears management capacity unaffected.
In addition, following the completion of the market test of Real Personal Finance, the decision has been made to focus direct repayment lending solely on known prospects sourced through the home credit business.
This will result in a significant overhead reduction and losses will not continue through 2010.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009
