Chairmans statement Harvey McGrath Chairman 4 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 OVERVIEW During 2009, we reinforced our leadership and continued our smooth succession to a new generation.
Mark Tucker, CHAIRMANS whose decision to leave Prudential was announced in March 2009, was succeeded as Group Chief Executive on 1 October STATEMENT by Tidjane Thiam, formerly our Chief Financial Officer.
We thank Mark for his immense contribution to the Group over the past 25 years.
Throughout the year, Tidjane has demonstrated his ability I am delighted to welcome you to Prudentials to drive performance and build value, and has consistently 2009 Annual Report, and very pleased to report proven his ability to lead Prudential to the next level.
In April 2009, we announced the appointment of Nic Nicandrou During 2009, our clear and consistent strategy delivered as Chief Financial Officer in succession to Tidjane.
Nic, who a strong rise in profits in very challenging and rapidly changing joined from Aviva, combines technical depth and experience conditions.
All our businesses performed extremely well, with high-quality leadership skills, making him the ideal person enabling the Group to deliver exceptional growth in to maintain our commitment to leading best-in-class disclosure shareholder value.
Against this backdrop of performance, the Board has In July, we announced Rob Deveys appointment as recommended a final dividend of 13.56 pence per share, Chief Executive, Prudential UK and Europe, in succession bringing the full-year dividend to 19.85 pence per share, to Nick Prettejohn.
Rob joined from Lloyds Banking Group, an increase of 5 per cent.
where he held several leadership roles.
Also at Board level, Sir Win Bischoff stepped down as a non-executive director Full-year dividend per share in September 2009 on his appointment as Chairman of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
He leaves with our thanks for his contribution 5% and best wishes for his new role.
19.85p 2009 Our strong performance in 2009 was not just about financial 18.90p 2008 returns.
Sustainability remains a philosophy that is a fundamental part of how we do business.
Our founding principles of integrity, security and prudence continue to drive our commitment to From our origins in the UK, and for over 160 years, our mission supporting our customers and the well-being of the communities has been to meet our customers changing needs for savings, in which we operate.
At the same time, our prudent but proactive approach to capital management has ensured that Our founding principles of integrity, security and our financial position remains robust and resilient.
prudence continue to drive our commitment to What has changed in more recent years is our geographical supporting our customers and the well-being of presence in Asia.
We are now present in 13 countries with the communities in which we operate.
28 businesses, which offer the right combination of mature and rapidly emerging markets.
Without doubt, Asia is the I would particularly like to highlight the contribution of our most attractive region in the world for Prudential.
The regions employees who volunteer their time supporting local communities changing demography, wealth and savings ratios offer a unique and good causes.
During 2009, over 6,400 employees signed up opportunity for profitable growth which, in turn, is underpinned as volunteers amounting to approximately one in four of our by the bedrock of our established businesses in the UK and workforce with nearly half of them participating in our flagship the US.
On 1 March 2010, we announced an agreement with programme, The Chairmans Award.
This programme has gone AIG for the combination of Prudential and AIA, a wholly owned from strength to strength, bringing together employees as subsidiary of AIG.
This agreement provides Prudential with volunteers on key projects working with our global charity a one-off opportunity to transform the growth profile of partners.
Our volunteering programme is a demonstration the Group and offers long-term material benefits to our of our brand values in action.
After an outstanding year for Prudential, I remain extremely confident about the prospects for our business.
I believe our From our origins in the UK, and for over 160 years, strategy, skills and powerful brands uniquely position us in the our mission has been to meet our customers changing sector to drive profitable growth and create sustainable value.
needs for savings, income and protection.
I would like to express my thanks to all our people across the Alongside our clear strategic focus, unrivalled strength in world for their immense contribution to our continued success.
Asia, established positions in the UK and the US, and our unique asset management business, we continue to benefit Harvey McGrath from our powerful and trusted brands, our outstanding Chairman product expertise and the strength of our leadership team.
