214413 RIT R&A pp01-pp20 6 3 09 2:21 PM Page 4 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 4 In last years Annual Report, I outlined the actions that we had taken to adjust our investment positioning to reflect our increasing concerns about the economic and investment outlook.
These included a reduction in public market exposure after adjusting for hedges from 76% to 37% of our net asset value over the course of that year and a significant hedge of our Sterling exposure.
We now know that a combination of excess debt, complacency about risk and a number of policy errors resulted in market dislocations equal to the worst of the past century.
Lord Rothschild Having produced strong increases in net asset value since the prior market lows in Chairman 2003, we were concerned to preserve performance in the face of the risks that I have mentioned.
Although your Company was defensively positioned for the year under review, its net asset value decreased by 19.9% from 1,091.6p to 874.3p.
Over the same period, the Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index in Sterling, the FTSE All-Share Index and the Investment Trust Net Assets Index decreased by 22.3%, 32.2% and 30.0% respectively.
Your Companys 5 and 10 year returns are 39.2% and 119.3% in comparison with the MSCI World Index in Sterling, which declined over these periods by -2.5% and -23.6% respectively.
It is disappointing to have to report a reduction in our NAV, albeit major markets over the period endured losses of between 30% to 40% in local currency terms.
While the changes in investment exposure and currency positioning mentioned above were of clear benefit, public market exposure after adjusting for market hedges accounted for nearly two thirds of the reduction in value over the year.
Most of this was attributable to our external managers, including some of the previously most successful ones.
Just over a tenth of the reduction was attributable to our unquoted holdings.
These holdings, however, benefited from currency movements, as the majority are denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
There were few refuges from the unprecedented destruction of wealth we witnessed last autumn.
However, lower prices obviously bring opportunities to invest at levels not seen for many years.
Yet it remains the case that many of the major structural problems in the world economy and the financial system have yet to be resolved.
At a time when returns on cash are negligible and when many other asset classes have limited appeal, investment in public equities has become more compelling and, indeed, the effect of government policy has encouraged investors.
The stock market rally of the past few months reflects investors confidence being restored by the massive interventions carried out by governments to generate economic recovery.
We have, however, been warned recently by the Governor of the Bank of England that the UK faces a slow and protracted recovery.
In the USA the Federal Reserve has shown, by its actions, that it will do whatever is deemed necessary to combat deflationary forces.
The longer-term consequences, however, of huge increases in government debt, of bailing out banks with taxpayers money, of saving white elephant corporations and of quantitative easing on a large scale, are without precedent and surely dangerous.
As these reflationary measures fight deflation we can expect heightened volatility together with some economic recovery.
However, this may well be followed by a period of renewed difficulty as the basic problems of Western debt and over-consumption, which have led to such extreme imbalances with the Far East, remain to be tackled.
Beyond the current phase lie clear risks of increased inflation.
Indeed, many of our more recent investments have been made to position the portfolio for this likelihood.
These include a short position in US 10 year government bonds, Japanese government bonds and UK gilts amounting in total to 416 million on 22 May 2009, as we expect long term interest rates to rise.
We have also taken a 100 million long position in a basket of commodities.
As markets have fluctuated over the past few months, we have remained cautiously, rather than fully, invested in stock markets, although we have increased our exposure to listed equities from 37% at 31 March 2009 to 60% at 22 May 2009.
Since your Companys year end, the net asset value per share has increased by 4.6%, from 874.3p to 914.4p at that date, sharing to some extent in the market upturn during this period.
214413 RIT R&A pp01-pp20 6 3 09 2:21 PM Page 5 5 ASSET ALLOCATION We set out below our asset allocation within the investment portfolio at the period end: % of Portfolio % of Portfolio at 31 March at 31 March 2009 2008 Quoted investments 25.0 34.4 Long equity funds 15.3 11.5 Hedge funds 0.7 4.2 Unquoted investments: Direct 15.9 15.8 Funds 12.6 9.0 Investment property 1.7 1.7 Government securities and money market funds 28.8 23.4 100.0 100.0 The investment portfolio excludes cash, borrowings and other assets and liabilities.
A more detailed analysis of your Companys portfolio and currency exposure can be found on page 3.
UNQUOTED INVESTMENTS Direct Valuing illiquid assets in the current environment has become a contentious subject for holders of such assets who are required to value them on a regular basis.
We have made every effort to review these valuations and to reflect prevailing conditions.
As a result, while we have made gains over the year and benefited from favourable currency translation, these have both been offset by the reduction in valuations.
Further information on this section of the portfolio appears on page 13.
In November 2008 we sold our holding in MessageLabs, an email security business, for 28.2 million, or 5.9 times the cost of the investment originally made in 1999.
At the interim stage we also increased the valuation of our investment in Robin Hood Holdings, the generic pharmaceuticals company, to reflect the continued strong progress of the underlying business.
This holding remains our largest single investment, valued at 94.2 million at 31 March, compared with 45.5 million at the start of the year.
Part of this increase was due to the strengthening of the US Dollar against Sterling.
RIT has experienced attractive and, in some cases, exceptional returns from investing in unquoted transactions over the years.
As long-term investors, we believe that we should continue to invest in such transactions, realising that it is at times of severe dislocation that the best opportunities often emerge.
Funds We have 203.9 million invested in a diversified portfolio of externally managed unquoted funds including venture capital, property, energy and distressed debt.
Exposure to large buy-out funds amounts to only 1% of the portfolio.
Detailed information on the underlying funds in this section of the portfolio appears on page 16.
214413 RIT R&A pp01-pp20 6 3 09 2:21 PM Page 6 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 6 Of our total undrawn commitments of 220 million to such funds, the single largest undrawn commitment, of 40 million, is to Darwin Private Equity, which we were instrumental in creating in 2006.
They have made one investment, representing about 15% of Darwins capital of 217 million.
They are therefore well placed to take advantage of current conditions.
The second-largest undrawn commitment, of 39 million, is to Xander, the successful Indian investment company specialising in real estate and infrastructure projects, where we were a founder partner and investor.
During the course of the year Xander raised a fund of $485 million, none of which has been invested so far.
Assets under management amount to $1.7 billion, the company has no debt and the majority of its funds are available for future opportunities.
We have reviewed valuations to reflect prevailing conditions and to take account of the March valuations which a large majority of our managers have provided.
We have adjusted the remaining December valuations to reflect subsequent movements in the relevant stock market indices.
CURRENCIES Sterling declined during the course of last year and we had negligible exposure to the currency at the start of the period under review.
This view on Sterling was at the time justified.
We have, however, recently become more concerned about the prospects for the US Dollar and have accordingly hedged a large part of our Dollar exposure.
Against this we have significantly increased our exposure to Sterling.
We have also re-established our exposure to the Australian and Canadian Dollars and Norwegian Krone, which stand to benefit from a reflationary trend and a recovery in commodity prices from their sharp falls in 2008.
In an environment where government policy may further undermine confidence in currencies, exposure to gold too has been increased and now amounts to some 5% of RITs net asset value.
BORROWINGS Our US$150 million fixed rate loan was repaid in July and replaced with a revolving credit facility for the same amount, which remains undrawn.
In addition to this, we have a 150 million multi-currency loan repayable in May 2010 and extendable for one year and a 150 million loan repayable in 2012.
At the year end, the Sterling equivalent of these two committed and drawn facilities was 369 million.
Against these borrowings we have government securities, money market funds and cash resources of 565 million.
DIVIDEND We are proposing to pay a dividend of 7.5p per share on 29 July 2009 to shareholders on the register at 19 June 2009.
The increase over the previous years dividend of 4.0p reflects exceptional dividend income from our portfolio investments, in particular Harbourmaster, in the current year.
However, shareholders should be aware that this level of dividend might not be sustainable in future years.
The focus of your Company remains one of achieving capital growth rather than increases in income.
214413 RIT R&A pp01-pp20 6 3 09 2:21 PM Page 7 7 BOARD I referred in my Statement at the interim stage to a number of changes to your Board and in particular to the appointment of Sandra Robertson and Ian Wace.
Sandra became Chief Investment Officer of Oxford University Endowment Management in 2007, having spent the previous fourteen years at Wellcome Trust, where she became the co-Head of Portfolio Management.
She has also agreed to serve on the Boards Valuations Committee.
Ian is the co-founder of the hedge fund, Marshall Wace, and was previously Global Head of Equity and Derivative Trading at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell.
Charles Bailey will be retiring as Chairman of the Audit Committee, with effect from the 30 June 2009, and John Cornish has agreed to take up this position.
John is well-qualified for this role, having headed the investment trust team at Deloitte for a number of years.
On behalf of shareholders, I would like to thank Charles for his exceptional contribution over the years in chairing this Committee and we are delighted that he will continue as a Director of your Company.
