Chairmans statement Philip Hampton, Chairman Economic backdrop a deep recession, but signs of recovery Last year was a tumultuous one for the global economy.
In our most important market, the UK, gross domestic product shrank by 4.8% in Watch or listen to d real terms.
Significant contractions were also registered in the USA Philip Hampton at www.
com annualreport2009 and, in particular, Ireland.
For biographies M see pages 8-11 The recession hurt many of our customers, with unemployment rising sharply and corporate profitability coming under pressure, which in turn led to a marked deterioration in credit quality.
In addition, lower interest rates squeezed margins on many of our savings products.
Viewed in that context, there are resilient aspects of our performance in another disappointing year of overall losses.
More positively, the economic environment started to improve in the second half of the year, with the USA and UK emerging from recession, and many asset prices rising sharply.
Expectations for growth in 2010 are muted, and important adjustments still need to take place in the global economy.
We plan for the future on a conservative basis.
But we take comfort from the fact that we appear to be moving into the recovery phase.
External influences a price worth paying The benefits to RBS of political involvement, in the widest possible sense, are significantly larger than the costs.
Put simply, if RBS hadnt received government support, it wouldnt be here today.
Moreover, the extent of the support it received means we are in a position to rebuild carefully on our strengths.
I hope that the Groups results give you the This support has come at a price, most notably the divestments we are clarity about our performance and direction that required to make as part of our settlement with the European Commission.
These partly relate to the Commissions views on market share, with a enables you to share the confidence I have in particular focus on our small and medium-sized enterprise SME the brighter future for RBS.
business in the UK, and will lead to the sale of the RBS branch network in England and Wales, and, the NatWest branches in Scotland.
Other 2009 was a year of profound change and divestments are intended to act as a deterrent to companies seeking substantial challenges for RBS.
But, in the state aid, most notably the required sale of our insurance business.
course of the year, we have put in place the This is not how we would have chosen to change RBS, because our building blocks of our recovery plan and have absolute priority is restoring value for investors, including the UK taxpayer.
begun the process of restoring the company Collectively, the businesses we will sell represent under 15% of the to good health.
The Group now has appropriate Group, and the disposals are a distraction we would have preferred to avoid.
However, we have four years to make all our disposals.
In that levels of new capital and our job is to make it time frame, we are confident we can minimise any adverse impact and work on behalf of shareholders.
we expect to get proper value for shareholders.
The Governments Asset Protection Scheme APS comes with a high price tag, but is a worthwhile investment on two counts.
First, it enables us to pass the Financial Services Authoritys stress tests.
The insurance element of the scheme is the only way we could realistically achieve that.
Second, it fills the hole in our capital ratios created by the losses we made in 2009, the further charges we expect to make in 2010, and the associated increase in risk-weighted assets from pro-cyclicality and regulatory change.
We need the support of the APS if we are to accomplish our goals.
It is the Boards view that the restructured terms of the APS, which were endorsed by independent shareholders in December 2009, represent a better outcome for shareholders than the outline agreement reached in February 2009, when market conditions were much more uncertain and difficult.
It insures fewer assets and costs less.
We do not expect to claim 2 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Essential reading Chairmans statement losses under the APS, but it does provide valuable protection in the Governance comprehensive change to Board event of more challenging economic conditions.
We have also agreed and Executive Management how, if we wish to do so, we can cancel the scheme at any stage.
We have made comprehensive changes to the Board and the Executive Finally, the fees have substantially reduced and we retain our deferred Management team.
The Board is now the right size smaller and tax assets.
combines the skills and experience we need to rebuild the company.
Sir Sandy Crombie, Bruce Van Saun, and Phillip Scott all joined in 2009, Shareholders rebuilding confidence and trust while Penny Hughes joined in 2010.
We know that we have to rebuild confidence and trust with investors.
We believe the best way to do that is to combine clear performance Our strategy involves the introduction of new management disciplines to targets with improved disclosure.
Enhanced transparency will enable ensure that the RBS of tomorrow will be fundamentally different from the shareholders both government and private to measure and judge RBS of yesterday in risk, in focus on customers and in accountability.
performance as we work to restore the Groups financial performance.
Our new Board Risk Committee is a good example of the changes we UK Financial Investments has been a demanding, engaged and active have already set in motion.
It will regularly analyse the risk profile of the shareholder, most prominently on remuneration issues.
However, it has Group, identify any longer term threats and make recommendations to at all times acted in a manner consistent with its status as an arms the Board as appropriate.
length, commercial investor, which intends to sell its interests in RBS at the earliest attractive time.
Serving our communities We are acutely aware of our responsibility to repay the support weve Remuneration reform leading the way received and to enable the UK taxpayer to exit from the investment in Throughout 2009, one of the biggest challenges we faced was RBS.
But there is more we can do to support our customers and the balancing public and political concerns on bankers pay with the longwider communities we serve.
For example, weve been at the forefront of term interests of all our shareholders.
We share the publics concerns measures taken to minimise mortgage repossessions and to guarantee and we understand that it is impossible to defend some of the historic overdraft prices for small businesses.
pay practices of the industry.
We said we would lead that reform and I believe we have: our policies on clawback and deferral The Group is justly proud of its MoneySense programme, now in its of bonuses, announced in February 2009, went further than other banks sixteenth year, which strives to increase financial capability and inclusion.
and further than the subsequent G20 proposals.
This programme has a special focus on schools, with 600 RBS employees delivering new lessons to over one-third of a million pupils each year.
The losses the Group has recorded this year are driven by the legacy of actions taken in the past for which responsibility has been allocated.
Finally, we are satisfied that we are fulfilling both the letter and the The relevant people are no longer with the Group.
The bonus payments spirit of our lending commitments, which were to make an additional made this year are targeted at the staff who are tasked with the job of 9 billion available to the mortgage market and 16 billion to creditworthy returning the Group to profitability by delivering sustainable growth in businesses.
On the former, we have beaten our target.
On the latter, we our Core business and managing down the legacy exposures in our have achieved 60 billion of gross new lending to businesses, including Non-Core Division.
39 billion to SMEs, but, in the current economic environment, many customers have been strongly focused on reducing their borrowings.
On bonus payments for 2009, we were guided by a policy to pay the Moreover, the withdrawal of foreign lenders has been less pronounced minimum necessary to retain and motivate staff who are critical to the than anticipated, there has been a sharp increase in capital market recovery of RBS.
The Board believes it would have undermined the issuance and demand has been weak in the teeth of the recession.
profitable core of the business and damaged shareholder value had we As a result we have not achieved our 16 billion net lending target.
It is essential that talented people do not feel Even so, we are ready, willing and able to lend, and approved 85% of disadvantaged in working to restore value to RBS, compared with other loan applications during 2009, a rate consistent with previous years.
Nonetheless, the Board believes the position we have reached developed by the Remuneration Committee, endorsed by the Board and A new phase for RBS accepted by UKFI, who for one year only held a legal right to consent We are moving purposefully to a new phase for RBS.
We have a focused strikes an appropriate balance.
We have removed the main barriers that were in our way.
If we do the right things for our customers well be doing the With regard to our Group Chief Executive, Stephen Hester was right things for our shareholders.
I hope that the Groups results give recruited 15 months ago to lead the RBS turnaround.
The Boards you the clarity about our performance and direction that enables you to Remuneration Committee considers that Stephen Hester significantly share the confidence I have in the brighter future for RBS.
outperformed the targets he was set for 2009 and intended to award a bonus commensurate with that view.
He decided to waive this bonus Philip Hampton award, given public controversy on banking pay and the potential for Chairman his bonus to divert attention from and weaken support for the RBS turnaround and recovery.
However, it remains the Boards intention over the course of the recovery period to reward the Chief Executive fairly, appropriately and at market levels for achievement against the targets we have published to make the bank safe, successful and valuable again.
Gordon Pell, Deputy Chief Executive, who retires at the end of March 2010, also waived any bonus award for 2009.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3
