04 | rSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 cHAIrMAnS StAteMent A StronG And FocuSed buSIneSS in 2009, we have experienced an also continue to benefit from a combination appointments made from within has increased unprecedented market environment where of rigorous standards of management and significantly.
the Board and shareholders are the impact of failures in the finance and banking specialisation in our core product sectors and particularly well served by a dedicated team markets have fuelled recession.
in 2010, we will our geographic footprint across the world.
of management and staff, led by our chief be celebrating 300 years of existence providing executive Andy haste.
i thank them all on sustainable insurance services that, by pooling one of the consequences of the monetary our shareholders behalf.
individual and business risks, benefit the economy effects of the bank rescue has been to reduce and society as a whole.
A key skill throughout has the returns available from long term secure 2009 has also seen a number of government been our ability to measure and price risk.
Some investments, particularly government bonds, policy and regulatory changes and a significant of the failures in banks have been caused by which we require to match and balance our number of advisory reports and initiatives related neglect of that capacity and a pattern over a long term liabilities.
our overriding policy is to to board processes and effectiveness.
there have period of years where a significant number of keep that balance but it has had the predicted been tensions between the more specific needs individuals have been able to take unsustainable impact on our year-on-year results.
the of problem sectors like banks and those personal benefits from short term business management of our funds continues to have of the insurance sector.
Attempts to deliver practices, producing consequences detrimental significant Board oversight.
a one size fits all approach are inappropriate.
despite the challenges of the 2009 markets As a policy, your Board actively and positively the trading environment in 2009 was very your company has performed strongly.
engages with regulators, currently adopting a challenging.
our strategy continued to have in summary we have achieved: chosen approach of an intensive and detailed two major themes, firstly focusing on: regulation of risk activities.
We keep reminding A 4% increase in net written premiums those who will listen that we are not a bank, excellence in our core technical A combined operating ratio coR of 94.6% that risk is our business and regulatory measures competencies of underwriting and pricing An operating result of 777m, and should be proportionate and not incur onerous improving the effectiveness of our maintained a strong balance sheet and costs or unnecessary increases in capital operations and standards of service, and robust capital position.
requirements because of over-negativity and fear.
ensuring that we run a sustainable business through the economic cycle.
We continue to invest in processes and While we welcome impending european technologies to improve service standards and regulatory changes, particularly relating to the second theme is to focus on growth reduce costs.
We have also maintained our solvency, when linked with an over-cautious opportunities, particularly where we have leading focus on management development and over regulatory response, in-country gold plating market positions and in emerging markets.
We recent years, the number of top 100 and variations in interpretation these may Net written premiums m Combined operating ratio % Dividend for the year p 6,737 94.9 8.25 6,462 94.6 7.71 94.5 5,837 7.01 4% 94.6% 7% GROWTH COR GROWTH 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 IntroductIon Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | rSA | 05 i Am pleASed With ouR 2009 ReSultS, And Its with great pride that we celebrate our 300 year anniversary.
our business started AS We celeBRAte ouR 300 YeAR AnniVeRSARY in 1710 with the establishment of the Sun in 2010, i RemAin confident of AnotheR Fire office.
we believe that insurance excellent peRfoRmAnce.
should enable progress and this belief, together with our people and experience, John napier will continue to drive us forward for the chairman next 300 years.
create distortions in regulatory capital needs if certain public companies cannot be allowed in our 300th year, there is cause for and create competitive disadvantages by to fail their board processes will need different optimism, although significant uncertainties country.
the relocation pressure caused by controls than the great majority who dont remain.
We will continue to be watchful, diligent variations in tax regimes may be superseded enjoy that protection.
We have good products in by unwelcome new pressures caused by changes related regulatory competence should be more leading market positions and a strong global in regulatory environments.
targeted and not thinly spread.
We are well placed therefore to exploit any small upturn that may occur and there has also been a lot of comment and moving on, 2010 is a special year for RSA, one in remain confident of delivering another excellent discussion and draft recommendations on which to celebrate our 300 years, to take great performance.
this confidence is reflected in our changes to plc boards, the current combined pride in the achievements of the company in recommendation of an increase in the final code of governance and related matters.
both serving the interests of our shareholders dividend to 5.33p, giving a total increase for many recommendations seem not to analyse and customers and fulfilling a role in society that 2009 of 7%.
what the real differences between effective and helps indirectly to promote investment in growth non-effective boards are.
the greater underlying and the future.
We dont take our success for finally, i would like to take this opportunity issue was that too much faith was placed in global granted, it will continue to depend on how well to thank my Board colleagues for their diligence, competition as an effective regulator in itself.
in we exercise our stewardship on behalf of our challenge, contribution and support.
these circumstances the average citizen has a shareholders and meet the needs of our right to feel that he has been let down and is policyholders with services that are appropriate now paying the consequences.
Your Board continues to be wholeheartedly committed to those objectives on the question of the annual election of and management is equally dedicated to John napier the chairman and or boards, it could have their delivery.
chairman the result that a chairman appointed before an Agm could face two votes in 15 months on governance, we have further strengthened or even less.
if we compare what takes place our Risk committee and appointed noel within government, the combined chair and harwerth as non-executive chairman.
chief executive of uK plc face elections at over the next two years, we will add to his or her choosing.
for reasons of continuity the Board as we ensure continuity of and an opportunity to address difficult corporate knowledge and experience problems which take time to resolve, there and deal with the expected retirements would be opposition to even three-year required by the current guidelines on re-elections.
in public companies, we face the independence of non-executives.
maybe leaving company chairmen to be re-elected every two years and non-executives every three would be a reasonable compromise, unless those advocating such change within, or at least at the behest of government, feel the benefits are so great they would be prepared to apply the same principles to their own areas of responsibility, be it in uK plc or the great ministries of State whose annual reporting standards are well below those of public companies.
