Chairmans Statement There were four main themes behind portfolio activity Performance during the year.
The first was the restoration in December Over the year to 31 October 2009, the net asset value per of the sustainable dividend generation capacity of ordinary stock unit NAV rose by 14.8% with borrowings the portfolio in the face of both a decline in domestic at par.
The primary comparator indices both rose by more interest rates to near zero and a terrible year for corporate the global FTSE All-World Index rose by 18.3% and the dividends.
Also, a 25m portfolio of short-dated corporate UK FTSE All-Share Index by 18.4%.
In total return terms, bonds was created to boost income.
Second, between the NAV with borrowings at par was up 17.6% compared March and May, the portfolio was repositioned to a more with 22.0% for the FTSE All-World and 23.5% for the FTSE normal pro-growth stance with reductions to defensive All-Share.
The NAV with borrowings at market value was areas and major additions to Financials, Technology suppressed to an increase of just 11.6% as the market and other more cyclical areas.
Third, the level of effective value of the companys long-term fixed rate borrowings equity gearing was increased further with 23.6m added was inflated by the decline in gilt yields over the period.
in March as markets turned up and a further 26.4m over April and May taking effective gearing into equities Geographic and sector positioning contributed to 114%.
Towards the end of the year, profits were taken positively to relative performance while stock selection in a number of industrial cyclicals and financials which and sterling weakness made negative contributions.
had done very well and effective gearing ended the period Portfolio underperformance was primarily concentrated back at 105%.
The timely use of gearing added 1.6% to in March and May as markets turned and rallied sharply.
Fourth, emerging markets exposure Financials, in which we were under-represented, and was rebuilt over the year with additions of 35.5m to other generally riskier shares advanced well ahead of the Latin America and 30.6m to Asia Pacific ex Japan relatively defensive core portfolio as investors re-embraced with strong gains from both regions.
However, the portfolio was repositioned rapidly to a made to North America, Japan and Europe.
more cyclical stance and subsequently performed strongly in the period from the end of May to the year end.
Overall, the portfolio appreciated by 80.4m, the biggest contributor by far being Industrials 27.6m, reflecting The financial year began in the midst of the banking the purchases of 110m of out of favour cyclical companies industry maelstrom with global stockmarkets having made last October.
Financials were rebuilt cautiously fallen heavily after the collapse of US investment bank with additions of 52.0m culminating in gains of 15.6m Lehman Brothers.
As a consequence, the world economy including a strong performance by Spanish bank BBVA slowed sharply and global markets continued to slide 5.7m.
Other strong contributors across the portfolio between November and mid-March.
Major central banks included Tencent 5.0m, Petrobras 4.6m, Compal and governments responded with aggressive interest Electronics 4.2m, Hengan International 4.2m and rate reductions and alternative monetary and fiscal policy Li & Fung 4.0m.
measures to support banking systems and arrest the collapse in global growth.
As profits were taken late in the year and gearing lowered, the number of listed portfolio holdings was reduced to 90 March proved to be the pivotal month however as 2008: 117. global stockmarkets fell initially, to levels last seen in 2003, before reversing course and turning up sharply as the Over the last five years, the company has outperformed the first green shoots of recovery were sighted and aggressive main comparator indices, the UK FTSE All-Share and FTSE monetary policy measures were implemented in the US and All-World in terms of both share price total return and NAV UK.
Markets proceeded to rise 40% in sterling terms from total return.
early March until the end of the companys year as more evidence emerged of an improvement in the global outlook.
Income In sterling terms the best returns came from emerging With UK interest rates being lowered from 4.5% to 0.5% market regions Latin America 69.0%, Asia Pacific over the year, aggregate dividends from the UK FTSE ex Japan 59.0% and Middle East & Africa 45.8% All-Share Index and US S&P 500 Index down by 17% and all boosted by currency appreciation against sterling.
some 50% of dividend-paying companies in the FTSE The 12% fall against the euro transformed modest gains All-Share suspending or paying lower dividends, this was from European markets into a 25.0% gain in sterling terms.
likely to be a difficult year for income.
However, changes Japan 9.0% and North America 6.7% were relative to the portfolio and a traditional focus on strong, welllaggards.
As markets recovered, outperformance from managed companies meant that total income fell by just the turning point in March until the year end was 4.6%.
Fewer stock units outstanding post-buybacks and concentrated in just four industry groups Financials, lower expenses meant that EPS for the year were just 3.5% which rose by 86.6% from the lows, Basic Materials, lower at 10.62p 2008: 11.00p.
4 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Chairmans Statement continued Dividend Outlook It is a stated objective of the company to increase the From the turning point in March to the year end, global dividend by more than the UK rate of inflation over the equities rallied by 50% in local currency terms and 40% longer term.
The board is therefore recommending an in sterling terms.
Economic fundamentals continue to increase of 1.1% in the regular dividend for the year improve as the effects of the authorities extraordinary to 9.60p per ordinary stock unit 2008 9.50p which policy stimulus measures are felt.
Corporate earnings are compares with the October UK RPI annual inflation recovering and there are increasing signs of stabilisation rate of -0.8%.
If approved, the company will have in several key economies.
However, it is likely that the increased its dividend in each of the last 26 years.
recovery in markets has not only priced in much of the improvement in the world economy, but may also have itself been fuelled by surplus liquidity stemming from such policy Stock Price, Buybacks and Discount measures to support the financial system.
Consequently, The stock price rose by only 10.2% as the discount value in global stockmarkets is now much diminished widened slightly to 8.9%.
The discount was relatively following this rally.
The timely removal of central bank volatile as it narrowed during the first half and for a short and state fiscal support measures not so early as to spell was eliminated with the stock price standing above stifle the recovery and not so late as to spark inflation the NAV.
Under the companys buyback policy, which is will be a major challenge for the period ahead.
intended to keep the discount to ex-income NAV at or below 9% with borrowings at market value, 3.4m stock units were repurchased for cancellation over the financial year adding 0.3% to NAV performance and utilising 2.05 percentage points of the 14.99% authority renewed at the Douglas McDougall January 2009 AGM at an average discount of 9.9% and a Chairman cost of 13.8m inclusive of dealing expenses.
The average 10 December 2009 discount over the year was 6.0% and the estimated daily average between the introduction of the scheme in February 2006 and the year end was 8.1%.
Board Composition I am very pleased to welcome Mr Russell Napier to the board.
A consultant global strategist with CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, Mr Napier was appointed to the board as a non-executive director on 24 July 2009.
He will be standing for election at the 122nd Annual General Meeting which will be held at the Roxburghe Hotel, Charlotte Square, Edinburgh, on Friday 5 February 2010 at 10.30am.
European Regulatory Proposals Impact on Self-Managed Trusts Investors should be aware that the board views with concern the EU draft directive governing so-called Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM.
While the proposals have been aimed primarily at hedge funds and private equity, conventional UK investment trusts are being inadvertently caught under these proposals which contain some inappropriate measures and ultimately, could threaten the viability of the UK investment trust industry.
Moreover, the proposals create additional uncertainty for self-managed investment trusts such as The Scottish Investment Trust.
Consequently, we will be working with other self-managed trusts to lobby for amendment to the proposals and will continue to support the AICs own efforts.
Report & Accounts 2009 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 5
