CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement This has been a very dif cult year for equity markets and Scottish Mortgage: net asset value per share and the share price both fell by 41% while the FTSE All World Index fell by 23% in sterling terms over the period.
However, earnings were higher and the dividend has been increased.
The pace and force of market events was extraordinary even in the context of Scottish Mortgages hundred year history.
The identi cation and assessment of companies from around the world that are capable of returning long term earnings growth is the strategic priority especially during periods of turbulent markets and economic crisis.
A year ago it was evident that con dence within the Western The Managers carefully reviewed the portfolio in the second half financial system was failing in an alarming way but the crisis that of the financial year in light of the rapid change in markets and followed was of an unexpected magnitude and historic in scale.
the Board then made a strategic assessment of the impact of Con dence in financial markets evaporated in a brutal fashion after events.
These are continuing processes but the broad conclusion the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September.
The consequent to date is that the overall strategy to invest in equities for the long dramatic and destructive impact on the real economy was global term on a global basis is appropriate given the increasingly and not limited to the areas of operation of the mainly Western global nature of economic activity and trade.
A central strategic banks and institutions that had failed.
thesis that countries outside of the Western economic block will become increasingly, and possibly rapidly, in uential appears While our portfolio had only a modest level of investment in Western strengthened not diminished.
The drop in economic activity will financial companies, the large holdings which gave exposure to the obviously affect company earnings, especially this year, but the long term trend of global growth suffered dramatic falls in value in deterioration in operating conditions is not universal.
While there are the months between September and November.
This, and the way some companies in the portfolio where operating conditions have in which many other holdings in the portfolio were marked down in deteriorated signi cantly, a large number of the holdings continue an often apparently indiscriminate way, explains the fall in net asset to operate effectively and in many cases enjoy strengthened relative value over the year.
The extent of the fall was exacerbated by the positions.
Also, many nancially sound companies are now trading level of gearing.
on historically attractive valuations: those that survive this severe Outside the three month period described, market conditions were shock are likely to enjoy dominant positions for some years to relatively normal and this was re ected in less volatile and better come.
The task of the Managers is to identify such companies.
absolute and relative performance during those months.
However, The Managers Review on pages 8 to 10 gives a detailed markets gripped by fear and panic do not take into account a sensible, investment perspective of the portfolio.
considered and rational long term view.
Although the short term consequences may sometimes prove painful, the Board supports the Gearing Managers in a strategy that sticks to a long term view and focuses As markets fell great care was taken to manage the level of gearing.
on the prospects of individual companies.
The portfolio does not This was achieved by not renewing some borrowing facilities attempt to match the index and there will be periods of marked when they expired and also by the early repayment of other bank underperformance as well as outperformance as was the case borrowings.
While it is painful to sell investments in such conditions, during part of last year.
As of 31 March 2009, the five year share it was important to ensure in those highly unpredictable markets price total return capital and dividends was 27% and the net asset that gearing was not allowed to rise beyond agreed levels.
At the value total return, 12%.
By way of comparison, the FTSE All World financial year end, total assets were 1,398m and borrowings Index total return over the same period has been 16%.
Gearing period of high volatility will be natural in the aftermath of a shock magni es gains in rising markets and, conversely, losses in falling such as the recent one, an improvement in the long term trend and markets.
Gearing and the associated strategic issues are discussed an eventual return to economic normality can be expected.
It is by the Board and Managers on a regular basis.
interesting to note that over six months to the end of April 2009 the share price rose by 82p, a 25% increase over the same short period the benchmark index rose 5%.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
04 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Earnings and Dividend Outlook Earnings per share were 12.7p 9.8p in the previous year and There is no denying that the outlook is uncertain, even more so than included an element of past years recovered VAT and associated in an average year.
As ever, within a wide range, many different interest of 1.5p per share.
Excluding the VAT repayment, underlying outcomes are possible.
earnings were therefore 14% higher which is a noteworthy Ironically, the crisis can yield opportunities: the financial impact achievement in the context of wider markets and one which provides has been highly destructive but it may yield a simpler, and healthier, con dence in the underlying investments.
structural model for banking and finance.
Above all, the continued A final dividend of 5.5p is proposed which will give a total of 12.3p growth and increasing importance, and even dominance, of nonfor the year, an increase of 19% on the previous years total of 10.3p.
Western economies, especially China, represent a major opportunity Stripping out the non-recurring VAT repayment, the underlying rate of for shareholders today.
By historic coincidence, this echoes the dividend increase is 4.9% and well ahead of the 0.4% decrease in prospect facing initial Scottish Mortgage subscribers in 1909: the Retail Price Index over the same period.
then it was the expansion of America that was to fuel an ensuing span of long term economic growth and technological advancement.
The Board is rmly committed to returning an increasing dividend Today, after the passage of 100 years, it is still the identi cation to shareholders and in the event of a temporary shortfall in and subsequent performance of individual companies and the earnings, the revenue reserve is available for this very purpose.
success of their management, or otherwise, that will dictate long Revenue reserves stand at 21p per share of which over 6.5p term shareholder returns.
The Centenary AGM This years AGM will be the Companys 100th and will be held in The Merchants Hall, 22 Hanover Street, Edinburgh on Thursday 25 June 2009 at 4pm.
At the meeting, the Managers will give a short presentation on the investments after which refreshments will be Sir Donald MacKay served.
I hope that you will consider attending.
Although the year 14 May 2009 just past has been extremely dif cult, the Board and Managers are conscious that a 100 year record is signi cant as it underlines the enduring aims and encouraging resilience of the Trusts business.
I am happy to report that a history of Scottish Mortgage has been commissioned and will be sent to all shareholders this year.
The Board During the year two new Directors of a very high calibre with diverse and extremely relevant experience were welcomed to the Board: Professor John Kay and Fiona McBain.
Geoff Ball who joined the Board in 1983 will retire on the day of the AGM.
The Company has been fortunate in its association with Mr Ball and as the current Chairman I would like to thank Geoff for his single-hearted commitment and outstandingly helpful contribution to Scottish Mortgage over the past twenty five years.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05
