What we do Construction services excluding the Middle East 1 As well as creating value UK building education We have a strong and selective in its own right, a strong Our construction capability has construction capability in the UK construction capability plays played a key role in establishing a key role in driving growth the strong positions we have in and in Canada, focused on large, in Public Private Partnership our chosen sectors of the UK PPP projects and in support PPP market.
For example, higher added value contracts for services.
It is fundamental Carillion is a leading supplier to our ability to provide to the UK Governments long-term customers.
customers with the services 65 billion Building Schools they require, not only to for the Future programme, create, but also to manage signifi cant parts of which are and operate buildings and being procured through PPP infrastructure.
Combining our design and construction capabilities Having the capabilities with our private fi finance and to offer design and support services skills, has construction services gives already secured contracts for us a competitive advantage over 140 schools and academies when it comes to optimising where we are creating state-of the whole-life cost of the-art learning environments.
providing, maintaining and operating assets such as Underlying schools, hospitals, military operating profi t 1 accommodation, prisons, 30.9m roads and railways an essential requirement for PPP projects.
2 1 1 Before intangible amortisation, non-recurring operating items and non-operating items.
Carillion plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 02 What we do 2 3 4 5 UK building health UK building defence UK infrastructure Canada and the Our design and construction Having a strong construction Our largest sectors of the UK Caribbean building capabilities are also capability is also enhancing the infrastructure market are roads In Canada and the Caribbean, fundamental to our success in development of our support and railways.
Current major where our businesses were the health sector of the PPP services business in the defence contracts include upgrading the established over 40 years ago, market.
For example, our Public A1 in Yorkshire to motorway we have strong construction contracts for 20 PPP hospitals Private Partnership projects, standards and upgrading the capabilities both for buildings and other healthcare facilities, such as Allenby Connaught, Airdrie to Bathgate rail link, and infrastructure.
In Canada, of which 15 are in the UK where we are rebuilding Army which forms part of a PPP construction is growing including the UKs fi first PPP accommodation across the programme to improve rail strongly.
Having delivered two hospital, the Darent Valley South of England, and the links in central Scotland.
of the fi first PPP hospitals to be Hospital in Kent and fi five are Permanent Joint Headquarters Our construction capabilities built in Canada, we have since in Canada.
In December 2009, project in North London, both in these sectors are also key won a further three major PPP we were selected as the include long-term support to our success in winning hospital projects, which are preferred bidder for the new services contracts.
Being the and delivering PPP road now under construction.
In Southmead Hospital in Bristol, leading supplier of facilities and rail projects, long-term December 2009, we were on which we have since management and maintenance maintenance contracts for roads awarded one of our largest achieved fi financial close, with services for Defence Estates, and railways and contracts for ever contracts in Canada to building work on the main also creates opportunities for the new managed motorways extend and refurbish Torontos hospital scheduled to begin in our construction business.
This programme Union Station, refl ecting spring 2010. example, at Catterick Garrison, involves the installation and the reputation we have one of many Ministry of operation of mandatory for delivering major highDefence locations where we speed limits, together with quality projects.
provide facilities management hard-shoulder running, to and maintenance services, improve traffi c fl ow during we have carried out extensive peak periods, which requires building work, including a both construction and new leisure and sports centre.
5 3 4 Construction services excluding the Middle East 1 Mortimer College, South Shields 2 Southmead Hospital, Bristol 3 Catterick Garrison, Yorkshire 4 A1 trunk road upgrade, Yorkshire 5 Royal Ottawa Hospital, Canada Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11
