Chairmans statement 6 2009 was a year of stabilisation and progress While 2009 marked an exceptionally The fundamentals of the private equity asset for SVG Capital.
At the beginning of the subdued period in terms of private equity class, which focuses on building, turning year, we completed the strengthening of deal activity, the year has by no means around and creating value within businesses, our balance sheet and our strategic review.
been quiet for the sector.
A major independent During the year we had a successful professionals reacted rapidly to the research report on private equity sponsored management transition, with Lynn Fordham economic downturn by taking decisive by the World Economic Forum during the becoming CEO of SVG Capital and Tony action to safeguard and stabilise their year, found that both productivity gains and Dalwood CEO of SVG Advisers, our 100% underlying investments.
growth were higher in private equity backed owned advisory company.
Permira has a long track record General Partners have had to address not of delivering performance improvements At the half year, while uncertainty remained, just the operations but also capital structures in its portfolio companies.
Having adjusted I was able to report that Permira was seeing of many of their portfolio companies and operations and capital structures where signs of stabilisation in the performance where possible repurchase debt, reset necessary in 2009, the priority for Permira of the companies in the portfolio.
This has covenants, agree extensions or waivers with is to support its portfolio companies to continued with many of the portfolio their portfolio companies creditors.
While capitalise on the slow economic recovery companies showing a meaningful the debt markets appear to be improving, and resume or accelerate growth plans.
improvement year-on-year in cash flow lending remains selective and cautious.
generation, in large part through operational During 2009, the European Commission Board measures and cost reductions.
This, together proposed a Directive on Alternative with the significant deleveraging across In 2009 we saw a number of changes to Investment Fund Managers AIFMs with the portfolio and the positive influence of SVG Capitals Board composition with Damon the objective of creating a comprehensive public markets, has translated into a 30.4% Buffini, Anthony Habgood and Andrew and effective regulatory and supervisory increase of net assets per share since June Williams stepping down from the Board in framework for AIFMs at the European level.
1 and 7.1% over the year to 222.9p the first half.
Since the year-end we have also The proposal, which is to be applied to 2 697.6 million with shareholders announced that Gary Steinberg has resigned both hedge funds and private equity, is funds increasing to 620.4 million.
from the Board following his appointment being scruitinised by many UK public bodies to a new role with the International Monetary including the Association of Investment Fund in Washington D. C.. We would like Companies, the British Venture Capital to thank all four Directors for their important Association and the Bank of Englands contributions to the Board.
We are supporting the campaigns to have the draft amended.
1 For comparative purposes the opening NAV per share of 348.1p has been adjusted on a pro-forma basis to 208.1p to reflect the impact of subsequent Rights Issue and Placing.
This is a non-GAAP measure and is described in more detail in the financial review.
2 Including the 31 December 2009 unaudited Directors valuation of SVG Advisers of 77.2 million 24.7p per share.
2009 was a year of stabilisation and progress for SVG Capital.
Many of the portfolio companies are showing a meaningful improvement year-on-year in cash flow generation, in large part through operational measures and cost reductions.
7 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information In February 2010, the Company announced One of the effects of the New Articles would the appointment of Andrew Sykes to be to change the borrowing limit set out the Board as an independent non-executive in the Companys Investment Policy which Director with effect from 8 February 2010 shareholders would therefore be approving and his election will be proposed at the as part of approving the adoption of the forthcoming AGM.
Andrew will bring New Articles.
The change reflects the way valuable experience to the Board and on the borrowing limit has in practice been behalf of the Directors I welcome him.
applied by the Company and, therefore, the Board does not consider this to be a material change.
Circular to shareholders Explanatory notes on all the business We are asking shareholders to approve to be considered at this years AGM appear the Company adopting new Articles on pages 7 to 8 of the Circular.
of Association primarily to reflect the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK in August 2009 and the Annual General Meeting provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and The Annual General Meeting will be held certain amendments to the Uncertificated at 11.30am on 21 April 2010 at 61 Aldwych, Securities Regulations 2001 in October 2009.
As in previous years it An explanation of the main changes between will include a presentation on the activities the proposed and the existing Articles of the Company.
of Association is set out in Part III of the Notice of Annual General Meeting Circular We are very grateful to all our employees and the Circular posted to shareholders.
shareholders for your stalwart support during the last year.
SVG Capital is now able to look to the future with positive expectations for 2010 and beyond.
