Chairmans statement I have said before that I expected my 51st year of selling carpets to be extremely challenging and it has proved to be the case.
Market conditions and consumer confidence declined throughout the year, leading to a significant reduction in sales volume and profitability.
We continue to manage the business through this period of economic downturn by exerting tight control over all costs, capital expenditure, stock and Lord Harris of Peckham cash flow.
Our expansion into Europe over the past Chairman and Chief Executive few years has delivered increased profit.
This part of the business continues to show good growth.
Total revenue for the 52 weeks ended 2 May 2009 has decreased by 7.4% to 482.8 million.
Underlying profit before tax has declined by 72.3% to 17.2 million.
After the impact of profits on property disposals less other non-recurring items, reported profit before tax has declined to 16.7 million.
Underlying earnings per share have fallen by 71.3% to 18.2 pence and basic earnings per share has declined to 17.6 pence.
Including acquisitions, we opened a net 20 stores and completed the investment in our cutting and distribution centre and IT systems, closing the year with net debt of 97.1 million.
Whilst the Group has remained profitable in the most challenging of market conditions, profits have reduced substantially and there remains continued uncertainty in the economic outlook.
Against this background, and being mindful of retaining some financial flexibility to respond to any opportunities presented by the downturn, the Board feels it prudent to recommend a final dividend of 4.0 pence per share.
Having previously paid an interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share the total dividend for the period will therefore be 8.0 pence per share.
The Board appreciates the importance of the dividends to its shareholders and will seek to return to a greater level of dividend when a sustained recovery is evident and reflected in the financial results of the Group.
2 Carpetright plc | Annual report and accounts 2009 During the year there have been several important Board changes developments which will drive future profitability.
Martin Toogood retired from the Board on 10 September These have included: 2008 after six years service.
I would like to thank him for Stores 32 stores opened during the year.
The acquisition his contribution over that period.
of Ben fide Graaff Tapijt Ben fide Graaff and Sleepright After 17 years service on the Board, John Kitching UK Ltd Sleepright added 12 stores to the Group and stepped down on 2 May 2009 to focus his significant after the closure of 24 stores, we are now trading from knowledge and experience on managing the Storeys 567 stores in the UK & RoI and 128 stores across Europe.
I would like to thank John for his contribution and commitment to both me personally New ranges the Group introduced several new ranges and the Group, and look forward to benefiting from his of carpets with a particular focus on mid-priced deep pile continued leadership of Storeys.
Saxony carpets and continued to improve our ranges of higher quality wool products.
People Cutting and distribution centre all our cutting, distribution I thank all our staff for their continued commitment, and UK central office functions were relocated into the contribution and loyalty throughout the year and extend new facility in Purfleet, Essex allowing us to close four a warm welcome to all the staff from the Ben fide Graaff sites in April 2008.
This centre has now been operational and Sleepright businesses.
The role of all our staff, for over a year and has enabled us to reduce our who consistently provide excellent customer service, delivery times.
This new facility is an important element remains paramount and it is their efforts that really make in Carpetrights future growth strategy, giving us the ability the difference.
to double our capacity at minimal extra cost.
UK acquisitions on 5 December 2008 we acquired Prospects Sleepright for a total purchase consideration of This year has been a challenging one.
The Sleepright format had been trialled turmoil in world financial markets and the banking sector successfully over the previous 18 months, and at the has severely affected consumer confidence.
This has time of the acquisition was operating from 93 outlets made the trading environment extremely difficult.
within Carpetright stores and one standalone unit.
Our principal markets of UK & RoI are in recession We see significant opportunities to develop the business and the likelihood is that, with unemployment set to rise, and there are important synergies for us to exploit and the housing market will remain weak.
This has begun with a review of the have been a significant number of actions taken by the product range and supplier base, a change in the Government to improve the economy, we do not expect promotional offer, enhanced advertising, staff training a return to more normal trading conditions for at least and the trialling of a direct home delivery service.
I believe we will develop this proposition into Against this backdrop, we have been delighted by a leading bed retailer.
the first full year of operations in the new warehouse and European expansion we have seen strong sales and cutting facility, which has provided additional capacity and profit growth in The Netherlands and Belgium.
In 2009 enabled us to pursue additional business with the large these businesses represented 38% of our underlying insurers and housebuilders.
The acquisition of Sleepright operating profit.
and the continued growth of our European business We have successfully integrated the Ben fide Graaff ensure we are well placed to trade resiliently.
stores from the acquisition completed in July 2008.
I remain as passionate as ever about our business Of the 11 stores, we have converted eight stores and am excited about the prospects for the Group when to the Carpetright fascia and have now closed three trading conditions improve.
I am confident our strategy of stores, where there was a close proximity to one providing a comprehensive offer with the widest product of our existing stores.
This is enabling us to deliver range, best prices and excellent customer service will operational efficiencies.
I am confident that we will continue to achieve good growth across Europe.
Lord Harris of Peckham Chairman and Chief Executive Carpetright plc | Annual report and accounts 2009 3
