Chairmans statement The total return on the currently cash and other similar assets plus a shortnet assets of Temple dated bond portfolio are offsetting virtually all of this Bar during 2009 was gearing.
45.0%, which compares with a total return for Awards the FTSE All-Share I am pleased to report that Temple Bar was the Index of 30.1%.
The recipient during the year of two prestigious awards, return achieved namely the winner of the best investment trust in comprises underlying the UK Growth & Income sector from both relative portfolio Moneywise and Investment Week magazines.
The outperformance fund manager is to be congratulated on these boosted by the capital achievements which reflect Temple Bars excellent gearing of the Trust.
In long term track record.
share price terms the full extent of this benchmark outperformance was VAT rebate diluted by a widening of the discount shortly before I reported at the interim stage that Temple Bar had the year end, reducing the share price total return received a repayment of 1.856m from HMRC for for the year to 31.3%.
The discount widening was VAT paid on management fees in previous periods common to the growth and income sector as a for which it is permissible to claim.
Such amount whole, possibly reflecting investors greater appetite was credited to the capital and revenue accounts for higher risk asset classes.
It is pleasing to report pro rata to the allocation policies applicable at the that the fund managers record against the relevant times.
Since the half year a further benchmark is very satisfactory over the past five repayment of 628,000 has been received years.
A detailed analysis of performance is representing the simple interest arising on the VAT provided in the managers report.
This has been allocated Although the UK equity market recovered in full to the revenue account.
In total, therefore, significantly from its lows, many companies decided Temple Bar received during the year a recovery of to cut or omit dividends during the year.
This VAT and interest of 2.484m of which 0.88m is impacted significantly on the level of dividends attributable to capital and 1.604m to the revenue received by the Company.
However, much of this account.
Furthermore, the Trust has taken the shortfall was made good by the income generated necessary measures to preserve its position in from a decision to move into corporate bonds and respect of a possible claim against HMRC for also by the refund from HMRC of a significant amount compound interest but the legal process on this of VAT.
As a consequence, total income received, matter will probably run for a number of years including the VAT refund, was only 2.0% lower than before there is a definitive outcome.
This drove a reduction of post-tax earnings of 2.9% to 20.017m.
International Investment The Board is recommending a final dividend of 23.0p, Shareholders may be aware that Temple Bar currently to produce a total increase of 2.0% for the year.
This has the ability to invest up to 10% of its portfolio in dividend will be payable on 31 March 2010 to listed international equities in developed economies.
shareholders on the register at 12 March 2010.
This is Over the past couple of years this facility has the 26th consecutive year in which the dividend has progressively been utilised.
In certain situations it is been increased.
helpful to maximise the number of value Because of the VAT rebate, which I cover in greater opportunities upon which to base an investment detail below, the 2009 dividend has been covered by decision.
For the time being the board is content to revenue generated during the year.
Retained earnings preserve the present 10% limit but the position will be of 655,000 for the year have been added to the kept under review over the medium term.
The revenue reserve represents 156% of the total 2009 dividend.
At the year end, capital gearing, defined as gross assets divided by net assets, was 113%.
However, Temple Bar Investment Trust 7 Chairmans statement continued Field Walton Outlook After 27 years loyal and diligent service on the I highlighted last year that bear markets can board Field Walton has decided to stand down as generate some very attractive opportunities, a director at the forthcoming AGM.
Field has provided the companies in which we invest have been an outstanding servant of the Company balance sheets strong enough to withstand a over that time.
His forthright and perceptive serious economic downturn and franchises views will be sorely missed by all his colleagues durable enough to produce good returns over the on the board, particularly his tendency to longer term.
Certain of the shares on the challenge the conventional wisdom.
We shall portfolio performed spectacularly over the year greatly miss Fields wise counsel and wish him and the manager decided to take some profits.
In due course we may seek to He believes the easier money has been made on recruit an additional director, bearing in mind the the most cyclical parts of the portfolio but that a objective of optimising the mix of skills and number of holdings, while likely to remain experience on the board as a whole.
volatile, still offer good long term value.
He also believes that many of the largest stocks in the market remain cheap and that their dividend Articles of Association yields and strong balance sheets make them At the Annual General Meeting it is proposed attractive investments.
that the Company adopt new Articles of Association.
These latest amendments to the The manager has provided the board with a current Articles reflect the changes in company number of scenarios for revenue over the next law brought about by those elements of the five years.
There are many variables which Companies Act 2006 which came into effect on contribute to a wide range of possible outcomes.
More details on the proposed Under a number of scenarios the revenue changes to the Articles are given in the Appendix reserve is large enough to support the dividend to the Notice of Meeting on page 49. until revenue generated on the portfolio naturally covers the dividend.
Because of the highly concentrated portfolio, the greatest risk factor is Annual General Meeting that of further dividend cuts amongst our largest The annual general meeting will be held at holdings.
Clearly, great uncertainties exist and 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP on Monday the Board believes that the scope for dividend 29 March 2010 at 11 a. m. I look forward to increases over the next few years is, at best, meeting as many of you as are able to attend.
addition to the formal business of the meeting the fund manager, Alastair Mundy, will make a Our manager and his experienced team stuck to presentation reviewing the past year and their contrarian investment principles in their commenting on the outlook.
He will also be darkest hour and their long term performance available to answer any questions.
illustrates the merits of a well articulated and consistently implemented process.
While they constantly search for new investment ideas, new opportunities are currently thin on the ground.
However, history tells us that patience has its rewards.
John Reeve 23 February 2010 8 Temple Bar Investment Trust
