Peter A Smith Chairman Background exciting opportunities for the Investment Manager to buy This year Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust into good quality companies at attractive prices, to the PLC TEMIT or the Company celebrates the 20th long term benefit of shareholders.
The Managers Report anniversary of its flotation in 1989.
These two decades and Portfolio Review on pages 11 to 15 sets out more have seen periods of major market volatility but, detail about the historic performance and future throughout these cycles, Templeton Asset Management opportunities available.
Limited the Investment Manager has remained consistent in its investment approach focused on Performance investing for long-term growth, in good quality, Against this background described above, TEMITs Net undervalued emerging market companies.
Asset Value NAV declined in sterling terms from 484.8 pence at 30 April 2008 to 365.7 pence at 30 April The deepening recession, which started in the US in 2009, a decrease of 24.6%.
The decline took place in the 2008, rapidly spread across the world and has provided first half of the financial year, with a fall of 42.1% being significant challenges for both developed and emerging reported in our interim accounts.
The low point was in market investors.
The dramatic falls in developed October and since 31 October 2008 the NAV has risen markets resulted in investors becoming much more risk by 30.3%.
averse and consequently nearly all emerging markets suffered as investors moved their assets to perceived safe The TEMIT share price at 30 April 2009 was havens.
Over the Companys financial year the MSCI 340.5 pence, compared with 438.0 pence at the Emerging Markets Index total return fell in sterling beginning of the financial year, a decrease of 22.3%.
terms by 23.4%, while the UK as measured by the The NAV total return for the Company for the financial FTSE All-Share Index fell by 26.9% in sterling terms year, including dividends re-invested, was a decrease of and the US as measured by the S&P 500 Index fell by 23.5%.
Over the same period, the MSCI Emerging 35.3% in dollar terms.
Markets Index fell by 23.4% in sterling terms.
However daunting the current environment may seem, Exchange rates in two of the largest currency exposures, market downturns have historically been shorter than the US dollar and Hong Kong dollar, appreciated nearly 30% periods of strong capital growth that have followed.
Your against sterling over the period which benefited overall Board believes that the current market volatility offers performance.
4 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Pleasingly, the portfolio has recovered strongly since the 15 July 2009 and by 4 p. m. on 14 July 2009 NZ time year end and by 5 June 2009, the NAV per share had for NZ shareholders.
risen by 15.3% to 421.6 pence and the share price rose There are strong reasons for the continuation of your by 14.2% to 388.75 pence.
Company: TEMITs total assets at the year end were 1,208 million TEMIT is the UKs largest emerging markets compared to 2,291 million at 30 April 2008 a fall of investment trust, offering shareholders an easy and 1,083 million.
611.2 million of the reduction resulted relatively liquid means of investing in emerging from the return of capital to shareholders during the year markets.
Emerging markets still offer investors strong long-term The Companys discount narrowed during the year, growth potential.
Countries like India and China are decreasing from 9.6% initially to 6.9% at the end of the delivering strong economic growth and new year.
Since the completion of the tender, the discount investment opportunities are continually becoming has generally been in the range of 3% to 9%.
available, as markets expand and new countries open for investment.
Even though this has been a very challenging year, I am pleased that TEMITs record has again been recognised The Companys Investment Manager, Templeton Asset by independent financial publications, winning the Management Limited, is large and experienced, with Investment Week Investment Trust of the Year Award an enviable track record of managing emerging market 2008 in the emerging markets category and being Highly investments for long-term growth.
For example, over Commended in the emerging markets category for both the five year period to 30 April 2009 TEMIT returned the Money Observer 2008 and the Moneywise 2009 146% compared to a rise in the MSCI Emerging Investment Trust Awards.
Markets Index of 106% and the UK FTSE All-Share Index of 15.5% figures are based in sterling, Investment in emerging markets is a long-term financial including dividends reinvested.
Over the five years to 30 April 2009, the total return of the Company, in sterling terms with The discount on the Companys shares has stabilised dividends re-invested, was 146%, compared with a rise since the tender offer last June, trading generally in a in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 106% in range of 3% to 9%.
Indeed, over the twenty years since Your Board believes that it is in the best interests of launch, in June 1989, the figures are even more shareholders to vote in favour of the continuation of impressive with the total return of the Company, in TEMIT for a further five years and recommends all sterling terms with dividends re-invested, being 1,089% shareholders do so.
The Directors intend to vote in compared with a rise of 585% for the MSCI Emerging favour of continuation in respect of their own Markets Index in sterling terms.
term out-performance of your Company is a major reason we believe it remains an attractive vehicle for Please see the letter accompanying this Report for more investment in this asset class.
Asset allocation Continuation vote At the year end, 98% of the Companys total assets were In accordance with the terms of the Companys Articles invested in equities, with the remaining 2% being held of Association, every five years your Board must seek in liquid assets.
The general policy of the Board is to be shareholders approval for TEMIT to continue as an fully invested.
The continuation vote will take place at the AGM on 17 July 2009.
Share buy-backs You can vote for or against the continuation by During the year, the Board has kept the Companys completing the relevant proxy form, voting on-line or discount under continual review and exercised its right attending the AGM in person.
If you are voting by proxy to buy back shares when it believed that this was in or on-line, your votes must be received by 12 noon on shareholders best interests.
141.8 million shares were TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 5 CHAIRMANSSTATEMENT CONTINUED  placeon17July2009.
bought back and cancelled through the tender offer Dr Mark Mobius and team on emerging markets representing 30.0% of the shares in issue at 30 April investment and the current outlook.
2008 for a total cost to the Company of 611.2 million.
This years meeting will be held in the Mountbatten During the year a further 0.4 million shares were bought Room, the Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London back for a total cost to the Company of 1.4 million.
More details of this meeting Together, these contributed to an uplift to the NAV per can be found on page 60 of this Report.
The Board As previously announced, we welcomed Hamish Buchan VAT to the Board on 26 June 2008 with Peter Godsoe retiring Following the outcome of a recent European Court of as a Director on the same date.
I thank Peter for his Justice case, HM Revenue & Customs accepted that contribution to the Company over the past five years.
management fees charged to investment trusts should be exempt from VAT.
The Company had lodged protective Neil Collins and Gregory Johnson will be recommended claims to recover VAT historically overcharged, and I am to shareholders for re-election at the AGM on 17 July pleased to report that we have now received 2.4 million 2009 and their biographies appear on pages 9 and 10. of VAT and associated interest.
This has been credited to The Board continually evaluates its performance and Revenue, contributing to an uplift in Revenue profits.
following the annual Directors appraisal process, and on The Company may receive some additional repayments the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the but, as the amounts and likely repayment dates are Board has approved both of the Directors standing for currently uncertain, no account of any credit for them re-election.
Communication with Shareholders The Board aims to keep shareholders informed and up Dividend to date with information about the Company.
We Although TEMIT is primarily a vehicle for capital recognise that shareholders, especially those who hold growth, the Boards policy is to have a relatively full their shares through nominee accounts, can find it distribution of the Companys revenues.
To this end, the difficult to find out the most up-to date news about Board has proposed an ordinary dividend of 3.75 pence TEMIT.
We send you the annual and half year report per Ordinary Share 2008: 3.50 pence.
This represents and accounts and notices of any significant company an increase of 7.1% on 2008.
In addition, the Board events.
We also release information to the stock proposes to pay a special dividend of 2.50 pence per exchanges, such as Interim Management Statements.
This special dividend includes the income accrued from the start of the period under Our website www.
co. uk is updated with all the review up to the tender offer date and attributable to the latest news, price and performance information, portfolio tendered shares then cancelled through the tender offer.
updates and also quarterly webconferences.
Last year we The special dividend also includes the VAT and related also launched a subscribe by email service, enabling you interest recovered in the year, as a result of the European to automatically receive updates when they appear on Court of Justice case.
I encourage all shareholders to register on our website and make full use of the facilities and materials available Next Annual General Meeting AGM to help you keep informed about your Company.
With a view to providing shareholders with more timely information, your Board has decided to bring forward the date of the Companys AGM to Friday Outlook 17 July 2009.
This allows the meeting to take place In sharp contrast to the developed world, many much closer to the publication of the Annual Report emerging economies are still growing, albeit at a slower and Accounts than in previous years.
As in previous rate than in recent years.
In general, they are in a much years, the meetings will include a presentation by stronger macroeconomic and financial position than their 6 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC developed market counterparts.
They are frequently resource rich and their citizens are generally enjoying rising per capita incomes, resulting in expanding middle classes and increasing domestic consumption.
Currently, equity valuations are far from stretched and good quality companies can be bought at attractive valuations.
Your company is extremely well positioned to benefit from these considerations and your Board view the future with some confidence.
I hope that you will be able to attend our AGM at which the Manager will make a short presentation and, with some of my fellow Directors, I look forward to the opportunity of meeting you.
Peter A Smith 12 June 2009 Indices above are shown on a total return basis in GBP.
Sources: Franklin Templeton Investments and Standard & Poors.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7
