Highlights Chairmans Statement The Groups performance has held up well in the tough trading conditions a testament to the resilience of the model.
John Gildersleeve, Chairman It has been a momentous year for the of growth in the broadband market, large majority of our underlying bank Group, as it has been for many enterprises principally as a result of a markedly borrowings, leaving us with a very strong worldwide, given the rapid deterioration in less active housing market.
Carphone Warehouse has not been immune to these pressures.
EBIT at Best Buy Europe fell 33% to We have been using this financial strength Our customers have been feeling the 101m 2008: 151m with strong top to trade aggressively on the high street, pinch, our suppliers have become less line growth more than offset by margin accepting lower margins in return for profitable, and the currencies in which our deterioration, caused partly by product sustained top line growth and burgeoning assets and liabilities are denominated have mix and partly by our own trading market share in a more depressed mobile been extremely volatile.
However, where strategy, which focused on market share phone market.
Our increasing market possible we have continued to focus on gains in a weaker handset market.
presence will allow us to start to rebuild our long-term goals: to build market share, margins as volumes recover.
to remain relevant to customers and to Headline earnings per share fell 18% to offer excellent value in everything we do.
Statutory earnings Within the TalkTalk Group, the service per share, after exceptional items and problems of a couple of years ago have Group revenue for the period was down amortisation of acquisition intangibles, been all but eradicated and we are now 3% to 1,385m 2008: 1,424m.
Both of increased from 8.1p in the prior year to beginning to be recognised for good these figures exclude Best Buy Europe 61.6p, reflecting the substantial gain on service as well as outstanding value.
Following the transaction with Best Buy during the During the year we have focused on the transaction with Best Buy at the end year.
The Board is proposing a final making our network even more robust of June 2008, the results of the Groups dividend of 3.00p 2008: 3.00p, taking the and putting in place the additional retail and distribution business are shown total for the year to 4.35p 2008: 4.25p.
capacity required to exceed our net of interest and tax within joint customers growing usage needs.
Results for While profitability has suffered against After six years of heavy investment, the first quarter and for 2007-08 are a backdrop of a very harsh environment, the business is now set to generate shown as discontinued operations, I am pleased to be able to report on significant amounts of cash.
again net of interest and tax.
Best Buy some areas of substantial progress Europe revenue was up 15% to 3,563m, for the Group.
The deal with Best Buy, Despite the tough times, morale is high: reflecting significant market share gains completed in June 2008, brought our our internal employee surveys are and a stronger Euro.
retail operations together with the showing very positive readings and our acknowledged global leader in consumer people are excited about our plans for the At a divisional level, TalkTalk Group electronics retailing.
It can be a challenge to feel achieved EBIT of 124m.
Whilst confident of not only refreshing our motivated during times of such great representing an increase of 80% on existing retail proposition to deliver the uncertainty but our employees have really the previous year 2008: 69m, this Connected World to customers, but risen to the challenge and I would like to was some way below our aspirations also building a substantial Big Box thank them on behalf of the Board for their at the start of the year and reflected consumer electronics retail business in continued efforts.
an unexpected slowdown in the rate Europe.
It also enabled us to pay off the www.
