Chairmans Statement The robust performance of the business during 2009 has been performances over the last two years, the Companys share price at achieved despite circumstances and events which have not always the end of 2009 was 40% lower than the average closing price during been helpful.
It re ects the value of the service the business provides the first half of 2008, before the financial crisis.
The continued low to participants in the worlds over-the-counter OTC financial markets, earnings multiple currently applied to the Company mainly re ects the continuing underlying need for those markets to operate concerns over the future prospects for the inter-dealer broker sector.
effectively and the bene ts of actions taken by management.
While it is generally not sensible for boards to conclude that the value the market places on their company is wrong, we do owe it to our Results shareholders to say that we believe that the concerns over the future The results are explained in detail in the Business Review.
of the sector are largely misplaced.
Revenue of 947.7m was marginally higher than for 2008, with Our own views on the development of the sector are articulated in lower underlying revenue due to reduced levels of market activity the Business Review.
The wholesale OTC markets are critical to the compared with the highly volatile second half of the previous year, effective functioning of the worlds financial system.
Tullett Prebon is offset by the recovery of the US dollar which is re ected in the value the worlds second largest inter-dealer broker and has a vital role in of the results of the North American operations.
facilitating trading in these markets by nding and creating liquidity through price and volume discovery, and by providing clients with an Operating pro t of 170.8m is 4.3m lower than for 2008, re ecting effective means of conducting their trading activities.
Given that there is some operational leverage in the business, operating margins are adversely affected Commentators, governments and regulators continue to debate the by lower levels of underlying revenue, but at 18.0% for 2009 are only various proposals put forward in both the US and Europe to improve a little lower than the 18.6% for 2008.
This re ects the active the ef ciency and strength of OTC derivatives markets.
We believe management of our front of ce costs, the bene t of the actions that the effective and ef cient operation of OTC markets will taken at the end of 2008 to reduce xed support costs, the necessarily continue to rely on intermediaries to provide liquidity and investments made in increasing the scale and breadth of the appropriate infrastructure to facilitate trading and risk management.
business, and strong management control.
Our expertise and depth of our liquidity pools make us well positioned to continue to provide valuable support to our clients and After lower nancing costs, adjusted pro t before tax of 157.0m we expect to be able to adjust effectively to any changes in our compared with 155.4m in 2008.
With a reduction in the effective markets which arise from the discussions taking place.
tax rate to 33.8%, adjusted basic earnings per share were up 4% to 49.2p.
Our strategy is to continue to focus on providing services as an intermediary in wholesale OTC markets, and to continue to The business has low capital requirements and excellent cash ow build a business with the scale and breadth to deliver superior characteristics.
Operating cash ow for the year was 137.9m and at performance and returns, whilst maintaining strong financial the end of the year net funds amounted to 9.0m 2008: net debt of management disciplines.
17.4m realising the Companys objective of substantially reducing its previous levels of net debt.
Since the return of 301.5m of capital The Company is continuing to invest in electronic trading platforms to shareholders in early 2007 the business has reported net cash ow and in broadening its activities as an inter-dealer broker, including the before dividends and debt repayments of 250m and over the same two recent acquisitions in Energy OTC broking, new broker hires and the period has paid 76m of dividends to shareholders.
agreement to acquire one of the leading inter-dealer brokers in Brazil.
Dividends Risk The Board recognises that dividends are an important element of As an intermediary, the business does not take any trading risk and shareholder return.
Re ecting the strong financial position it is does not hold principal trading positions.
The business only holds recommending a final dividend of 10.0p per share, making the total financial instruments for identi ed buyers and sellers in matching dividend for the year 15.0p per share, an increase of 18% on the trades.
Such transactions are settled rapidly and the business does 12.75p per share paid for 2008.
The final dividend will be payable not retain any contingent risks.
on 20 May 2010 to shareholders on the register on 30 April 2010.
As we explained last year, following the financial crisis in the second Shareholder returns and OTC market development half of 2008, our management teams conducted a very thorough The Companys overall objective is to maximise returns to shareholders re-analysis of risks, mitigations and controls which was carefully over the medium to long term, at an acceptable level of risk.
reviewed by the Board and Audit Committee.
This process also involved external advisers.
During 2009 management has continued Total shareholder return for 2009 was 114% which compares to the with this work taking into account changes in market circumstance.
return from the FTSE 250 index of 51% and the General Financials The Audit Committee is chaired by my colleague Richard Kilsby, who sector index of 48%.
Our TSR performance was, however, largely has considerable experience in the relevant areas.
During the year it driven by a recovery in the share price from the very low level at the has twice formally reviewed and updated the Risk Assessment end of 2008, which arose from the general fide-rating of financial Framework.
We are well aware that, despite generally good 02 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009 Chairmans Statement Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information We do not regard this as a theoretical exercise.
The Company has a During the year we experienced a number of what are called raids clear understanding of its risks and the necessary controls and has on broking staff by a competitor called BGC, affecting our UK, Asian consistently embedded the results of this work in its day-to-day and particularly North American business, where 77 brokers resigned.
management, communications processes and behaviours, which are The Board believes that it has a duty to pursue every available legal routinely monitored by our internal audit procedures.
Although remedy to enforce the Companys contractual and other rights in supported by internal specialists, all our senior executives regard risk response, regardless of the inevitably negative publicity that may analysis, maintenance of controls and timely response as their arise from doing so.
To do otherwise would weaken our future responsibility.
Both management and the Board continue to have a competitive position.
Actions have been taken to rebuild staf ng questioning and alert attitude to this issue.
levels with new hires and to strengthen the relevant management teams and processes so as to reduce the potential scale of similar The business is also focused on relatively uniform activities which the events in future.
management understands and we have a clear and rm approach to regulatory compliance in all circumstances.
The Company has continued to work hard on developing management succession and upgrading the professionalism of its The Business Review includes a detailed analysis of our risks.
It is not management and management processes.
The positions of Chief possible to eliminate risk in any business but, provided this one is Operating Of cer and the Chief Executive Of cers of all of its regions competently managed and led, the nature of its trading activities and have all been lled by internal appointments of staff developed the controls in place should not give rise to unacceptable levels of risk.
Remuneration and staff matters Outlook The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 30 to 35.
The Remuneration Although the worlds financial markets have remained unsettled, Committee is now chaired by my colleague Rupert Robson.
overall activity in the markets slowed in the second half of 2009 in comparison to the particularly volatile markets experienced in the The inter-dealer broker sector is characterised by high variable autumn of 2008 and into the first half of last year.
As expected, remuneration for brokers.
There is strong competition in the sector activity currently remains at this more normal level.
There are five substantial OTC inter-dealer broking businesses in the world and only two of these are UK listed companies.
The underlying revenue run rate in the first two months of the year is In order to maintain returns and value, in the best interest of the 5% lower than a year ago at constant exchange rates.
We expect this Company it is necessary for us to pay competitive remuneration run rate against prior year to improve, particularly in the second half.
in order for us to recruit, retain and incentivise good brokers.
This In addition, the net effect of the broker defections in North America remuneration is predominantly directly based on performance and has been to reduce revenue by 6%.
The bene t from the actions that we do not pay comparatively high xed remuneration and do not we have taken to mitigate the impact of the broker defections will believe it would be appropriate for us to do so, although this trend increase during the year as the rebuilding programme continues and is perversely currently being encouraged by some commentators.
the new brokers hired build up to their full run rate of revenue.
Following the financial crisis we had anticipated that UK financial The eventual outcome of the regulatory debate about how to services regulatory guidance on issues relating to remuneration strengthen the financial system remains uncertain, but we are would have been fully updated during 2009.
While that process is con dent that our role as an intermediary in the OTC markets will still incomplete, its development to date indicates that its emphasis continue to be vital and that our business will continue to add will largely be on the speci c relationship between remuneration and signi cant value to our customers.
We have a well diversi ed and risk for each business trading activities.
We are generally supportive robust business, and we are well positioned to respond to and to of this approach.
bene t from, changes in the way in which the OTC markets and our customers operate and are regulated.
We have again carefully reviewed that relationship for this business.
This review has involved both the Remuneration and Audit Keith Hamill Committees, which have again had the bene t of external expert Chairman advice.
As noted in my comments above on risk, the Companys 8 March 2010 trading activities are restricted to broking, do not involve taking principal trading positions and normally result in rapid and complete settlement.
We do not have measurement issues relating to what is known as long tail exposures.
Accordingly we regard the risk arising from our remuneration policies as low and do not believe that our approach to remuneration gives rise to an increase in risk indeed since it is performance based and losses can be rapidly identi ed it should discourage risk.
Tullett Prebon plc 03 Annual Report 2009 Business Review In this section: 05 Objectives, Strategy and Risk Pro le 06 Regulatory Developments 07 Overview 09 Operating Review 11 Financial Review 14 Outlook 15 Risk Management 19 Corporate Social Responsibility 04 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2009
