Chairmans Statement Centrica performed well in 2009 It has been a transformational year for Centrica, delivering a stronger business both upstream and downstream.
Roger Carr, Chairman Centrica performed well in 2009.
We have taken the opportunity In 2009, energy was once again presented by the low commodity price environment to address our UK energy hedge position.
The acquisitions of Venture Production plc never far from the headlines.
Venture and a 20% equity stake in British Energy have transformed Wholesale UK gas and electricity the Group, creating an upstream division that is a growth business in its own right.
Our energy hedge position is now more closely aligned prices both declined sharply from with our competitors, but with the flexibility of our own gas production and a clearly differentiated, low carbon generation mix.
We are the levels seen during 2008 and confident that these long-term transactions stand us in good stead while the forward curve indicates for the future, positioning the Group to be able to target investment in areas of greatest return, while remaining at the centre of ensuring that they will rise again during security of supply for the UK.
2010, it is clear that we are in a Downstream in the UK, British Gas delivered a strong performance, having combined our residential energy, services and business very different commodity price energy activities under a single management team.
We also environment from that experienced recognise that 2009 has been a difficult year for many of our customers.
British Gas was the first of the major suppliers to reduce in 2008.
This comes at a time when prices in 2009 which, combined with reduced average consumption, provided a welcome reduction in bills.
And our price reduction early the UK Government recognises in 2010 made us the cheapest major supplier of gas and power to that unprecedented levels of the residential market.
investment will be required across By contrast, due to the lower commodity price environment, profits from our UK gas and oil business were down year-on-year, as we the industry if security of supply took the decision to stop production at Morecambe and preserve the value of our gas reserves.
Offsetting this, the losses from our legacy is to be maintained and tough industrial and commercial contracts were much reduced, and our environmental targets met.
power station fleet performed well, taking advantage of favourable clean spark spreads.
Our North American business had a difficult year and was impacted by pervading low wholesale commodity prices and one-off factors, however it remains well placed for future growth as we look to build a more integrated business model.
Dividend The Board of Directors is proposing a final dividend of 9.14 pence per share to be paid in June 2010, bringing our full-year dividend to 12.8 pence per share, an increase of 4.9%.
This is in line with our policy of delivering sustained real growth in the ordinary dividend.
Board changes Deryk King, President and Chief Executive Officer of Direct Energy retired in July, and was succeeded by Chris Weston who also joined the Board of Directors of Centrica plc on 1 July 2009.
Chris was previously the Managing Director of British Gas Services.
As part of combining the divisions of British Gas into a single organisation, Phil Bentley took on responsibility for the whole 2 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Covering all bases: Significant additions to our upstream portfolio in 2009 enable us to supply even more energy to our customers from our own resources.
downstream UK business in March 2009.
Phil remains a Director The industry as a whole is entering a significant investment phase, of Centrica plc.
as the UK moves towards a lower carbon future whilst maintaining security of supply.
The Government has a vital role to play in With effect from 26 November 2009, Nick Luff and Mark Hanafin providing the stable investment climate, planning regime and represent Centrica on the boards of the British Energy joint ventures appropriate market support mechanisms, which will be essential in respect of our nuclear activities.
to underpin the long-term investments that will be required.
Paul Walsh, a Non-Executive Director stepped down from the Building on our extensive expertise, upstream and downstream, Centrica Board at the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2009.
Centrica is well positioned to grasp the opportunities this will present Paul joined the Board in March 2003.
We are grateful for his in a low carbon world and invest in appropriate solutions for the contribution and are actively seeking a replacement.
benefit of our customers and shareholders.
Our employees Our employees remain central to the success of Centrica.
We experienced one of our busiest ever periods for call-outs during the recent cold weather and I am immensely proud of the dedication and determination our people have demonstrated as they strive to deliver our ultimate product warm, well lit and energy efficient homes and businesses for all our customers.
The future Roger Carr 2009 has been a transformational year for Centrica, delivering Chairman a stronger business both upstream and downstream.
Our new 25 February 2010 strategic priorities set the agenda for the coming years, underlining the wide range of growth opportunities that we are able to pursue.
Earnings and operating profit numbers are stated, throughout the Annual Report, before depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments and exceptional items and certain re-measurements where applicable see note 2 for definitions.
The Directors believe this measure assists with better understanding the underlying performance of the Group.
The adjusted operating profit numbers are reconciled at Group level in the Chief Executives Review.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements are described in note 8.
Adjusted earnings and adjusted basic earnings per share are reconciled to their statutory equivalents in note 14.
All current financial results listed are for the year ended 31 December 2009.
All references to the prior period, the prior year, 2008 and last year mean the year ended 31 December 2008 unless otherwise specified.
Throughout this Report references to British Gas include Scottish Gas.
Our business principles Our Group-wide business principles create a framework to help us make decisions in line with a consistent set of operating behaviours based on trust, integrity and openness.
Demonstrating integrity in corporate conduct 5.
Focusing on health, safety and security 3.
Enhancing customer experiences and business 8.
Investing in communities partnerships Our ongoing campaign to communicate these principles will help our employees, business partners and external audiences understand the standards we expect.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3
