qxd:SFS NOM 09 18 5 09 20:16 Page 3 Chairmans message Welcome to our Summary Financial Statement & Notice of Meeting.
Our AGM will be held at the Barbican Centre on Wednesday 15 July.
I am sure that we can rely on seeing many of you there once again this year.
Sir Michael Rake Chairman and Phil Hodkinson.
I am pleased to confirm to Dear Shareholder shareholders that, following formal performance The world looks a very different place than it did a year evaluation, we continue to regard Clay and Phil as very ago.
Global trade has contracted for the first time in many effective non-executive directors.
Financial markets have been in turmoil and highest commitment to the role and make a valuable trading conditions worldwide remain extremely contribution to Board deliberations.
Against this background, the importance of since the last AGM have to retire at this meeting.
As a result defending free trade and ghting for regulation that Tony Chanmugam will automatically retire at the AGM and promotes investment and encourages competition has be proposed for election.
The biographies of those directors never been greater.
seeking election re-election are set out in the Notice of Our management team not only understands the Meeting, which is at the end of this document.
challenges, but also see the opportunities that lie ahead.
We are also asking you to pass a resolution to allow Three out of our four principal divisions BT Retail, BT general meetings to be held by giving 14 days notice and Wholesale and Openreach are delivering well.
to approve new articles of association primarily to reect Managements highest attention is now directed towards the implementation of the Companies Act 2006, and returning BT Global Services, our one under performing bring them up to date, as we have not altered them since division, to profitable growth.
We explain the main differences between the The proposed final dividend of 1.1p gives a full year proposed and existing articles on pages 13 and 14. dividend of 6.5p which rebases dividend payments to a Your vote is important to the good governance of your level which we are confident is sustainable.
If you are not going to be at the AGM, and you committed to delivering attractive returns for shareholders want to vote on any of the resolutions, please complete and believes that the operational improvements in the and return the enclosed proxy form to our Registrars business will generate sufficient cash ow to allow the Equiniti.
You will also nd enclosed a copy of Forward, our dividend to grow at the same time as investing in the shareholder magazine in which Ian and I talk about our business, reducing debt and supporting the pension priorities in the year ahead.
You can nd an online audio scheme.
version of this document and Forward at www.
com annualreport You will also nd there an Your Board and voting at the AGM online version of our Annual Report & Form 20-F, our full In December 2008, we welcomed Tony Chanmugam to the statutory accounts.
Board as Group Finance Director in succession to Hanif Lalani who had become Chief Executive, BT Global Services.
Conclusion Since joining BT I have been extremely fortunate to In closing I would also like to pay tribute to the BT staff.
have as my Deputy Chairman, Maarten van den Bergh who Everywhere I go I have been struck by their passion and is stepping down from the Board at the conclusion of the commitment.
I am confident in their ability to build on Annual General Meeting in July.
Maarten has been a BTs many strengths in the future.
tremendous asset to the Board having served as Deputy Chairman and senior independent director since 2006 and as chairman of both the Boards Pension Scheme Performance Review Group and Remuneration Committee.
I would like to thank him for almost nine years of distinguished service.
His successor will be announced in due course.
I would also like to express my gratitude to Matti Alahuhta who is stepping down from the Board on 31 May 2009 after serving as a non-executive director for Sir Michael Rake just over three years.
Chairman Two of the directors proposed for re-election this year are 13 May 2009 independent non-executive directors, Clayton Brendish BT GROUP PLC SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT & NOTICE OF MEETING 2009 3
