Chairmans statement Your company is driven by strong cash generation, a sound liquidity position and a diverse and geographically spread customer base.
Sir John Bond Chairman This year your Company has delivered adjusted operating profit of by the following financial year.
Sadly, this involves reducing our 11.8 billion and generated 5.7 billion of free cash flow before licence workforce but we nevertheless remain intent that Vodafone should and spectrum payments, helped by foreign exchange movements and continue to be a good place to work.
despite pressure on revenue in challenging economic circumstances.
This has allowed us to buy back 1 billion of shares and pursue a With prudent control of capital expenditure and reductions to progressive dividend policy.
The Board is recommending a final operating expenditure, your Company is positioning itself to benefit dividend of 5.20 pence, making a total for the year of 7.77 pence.
from the re-invigoration of the economy when it comes, driven by Regrettably, the share price has declined by 17% since the beginning strong cash generation, a sound liquidity position, and the diversity of the year, from 154.3 pence to 127.5 pence, but has nonetheless and geographic distribution of our customer base.
outperformed the FTSE100 which has declined by 24% over the same period.
We have seen continuing growth in proportionate customer Your Company will continue to promote innovation in products and numbers to 303 million at year end, as well as growth in mobile voice services across the range of our markets.
For example, over 6 million minutes of use and particularly data services.
people are now using the Vodafone Money Transfer system branded M-PESA in Kenya in Kenya, Tanzania and Afghanistan.
In total, they There is considerable evidence that the economic crisis has had a are sending approximately US$200 million a month, mostly as small significant effect on the environment in which we operate, across our transactions of less than US$20.
With over 4 billion people owning various markets.
Inevitably, during rapid economic decline and rising mobile handsets, we believe that for the majority of the worlds unemployment, our customers enterprise and consumer are population, mobile is likely to be the primary means of access to the looking carefully for ways to reduce their expenditure.
Higher speed networks in markets such as South Africa and responded to the pressure on household and business expenses with Egypt increase the speed and range of internet access.
Using pricing plans designed to address customers needs.
economies of scale to work with handset manufacturers has allowed approximately eight million customers to gain access to So the telecommunications sector is not immune from the impact of communications through our ultra low cost handsets during the year, the global recession but it has demonstrated a greater degree of at the same time helping to make Vodafone the second largest resilience than certain other parts of the economy.
The services we handset brand in India.
provide have assumed increasing importance in the day to day lives of our customers.
We see this particularly in the way in which our services, In our developed markets, we will continue to enhance our customers particularly data services such as email and internet access, offer new communication capability, with innovative products such as netbooks flexibility in the way people lead their business and personal lives.
and laptops with embedded SIM cards to connect directly to higher When more stable economic conditions return, this new flexibility speed mobile data networks.
We continue to see very strong growth should also support more sustainable growth, unlocking important in mobile data usage, over 100% in our European markets.
Our industry potential social and ecological benefits.
is undergoing an important change away from the predominance of voice traffic: within a few years most of the traffic on our European In addition to the impact of the economic downturn, we continued to network will be data.
We will promote services, particularly for small see pricing pressure lead to reductions of around 15% year on year in and medium enterprises, which increase workforce flexibility and Europe.
The period of rapid growth in new mobile customers in much enable greater efficiency and cost control.
of Europe is now over and we need to adjust our resources accordingly.
We are well on our way to delivering the 1 billion reduction in The rapid economic decline has inevitably led to calls for greater operating costs to which we are committed.
We will maintain this focus regulation and some have questioned whether an open competition over the coming year and expect to deliver on our commitment based economic model is sustainable.
We continue to believe that it is.
2 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Executive summary Total shareholder return April 2008 to May 2009 Vodafone 13% FTSE 100 20% Vodafone share price 7 % vs FTSE 100 Vodafone Group FTSE 100 index 170 6600 150 5800 130 5000 110 4200 90 3400 April 2008 May 2009 We have engaged with governments and policy-makers to urge them and I am confident that they will be major contributors to the future not to lose sight of the benefits in terms of investment, innovation and of your Company.
customer service which competition brings, of which the mobile industry is a leading example.
We believe that a descent into Finally, your Board has continued to fund the work of The Vodafone protectionism and national preference would damage the prospects Foundation, which is an important way of supporting the communities for the industry and for our ability to serve our customers needs.
and societies where we make our profits.
We invested 48 million in Regulation and taxation of the telecommunications sector continues The Vodafone Foundation programmes during the 2009 financial year.
to have a significant impact on our business, our customers and our The Vodafone Foundation and the network of national affiliates in our shareholders.
We have worked to ensure that legislators and regulators markets continue to achieve high recognition for the contribution appreciate the need to maintain a balance between the short term they make.
Highlights from The Vodafone Foundation programme benefit to the consumer and the long term interest of the consumer over the past year include World of Difference, which helped in investment and innovation.
individuals from 12 of our markets to take a year to work for the charity of their choice: a public health mobile data gathering system Your Board refreshed the Companys strategy in November 2008 and episurveyor helping to prevent the spread of disease in 22 African set strategic priorities which it believes will help your Company come countries: and the mHealth Alliance, announced in February 2009 through the economic crisis.
The review did not lead to any radical with the Rockefeller Foundation, which will promote the use of mobile change of direction but put renewed emphasis on operational technology in finding solutions to healthcare challenges.
performance, tight control of costs, free cash flow generation and a cautious approach to further footprint expansion.
The past year has On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all Vodafone staff around seen us expand into two new markets Ghana and Qatar, slightly the world for their tremendous work and commitment against a increase our shareholding in Polkomtel in Poland and attain majority difficult economic background.
control of our long-standing joint venture Vodacom in South Africa.
An important step towards in-market consolidation came with the Your Board is pleased with the resilience of the Company and confident agreement to merge our operation in Australia with the fourth largest that the Company will be well positioned for economic recovery when operator, Hutchison 3G Australia, underlining the value creation which it comes.
The past year has seen our new Chief Executive, Vittorio Colao, who succeeded Arun Sarin at last years AGM, put his deep knowledge of the mobile industry to good effect in steering your Company through Sir John Bond economic recession.
I am delighted that your Board has also been Chairman joined by a leading African businessman, Samuel Jonah.
As we increase our interest in Africa, with the integration of Ghana Telecommunications into Vodafone, and our increased shareholding in Vodacom, Sam will bring invaluable insights to our work.
Since the end of the financial year, Michel Combes, the Chief Executive of the Groups Europe Region, and Steve Pusey, the Group Chief Technology Officer, have been appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June.
Their appointments will help ensure that there is a good balance on the Board of both executive and non-executive directors Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 3
