Ourbusinesses  Financialstatements Otherinformation Chairmans statement The total dividend has been increased to 21.5 pence per share.
DearShareholder There have also been some changes amongst I am pleased to be able to report that, despite the responsibilities of the Executive Directors.
the very challenging economic and financial In order to more closely manage the restructuring conditions which prevailed during 2009, Charter of ESAB and its response to the economic traded profitably through the year and generated downturn, Michael Foster took direct increased operating cash flow.
This was largely responsibility for ESAB in April 2009.
James due to the strength of its businesses and the Deeley, previously Legal Director, became the speed with which they were able to respond to Companys Commercial Director with effect the change in trading conditions.
Full details from 26 March 2009, and in April also took on of Charters results are presented on the responsibility for ESABs Standard Equipment, following pages.
The Company announced on 19 February 2010 On 21 October 2009, Michael Hampson joined that it had launched an investigation into possible Charter as Company Secretary and General irregular payments that may have been made in Counsel.
connection with an attempt to obtain business by Dividend an overseas Howden subsidiary in an emerging In recognition of the Companys robust market.
This came to light during an internal review performance during 2009, its strong balance of another matter that has been satisfactorily sheet and our confidence that both ESAB and resolved.
Howden will make further progress in 2010, the The Company has now completed its investigation Board has declared a second interim dividend of into all matters of which it became aware.
There is 14.5 pence per share, increasing the total no clear evidence of any improper payments dividend in respect of 2009 to 21.5 pence.
This having been made although the relevant compares with the total dividend of 21.0 pence authorities have been notified where, on advice, per share which was paid in respect of 2008. this has been considered appropriate.
We are It is anticipated that the dividend will be paid on absolutely committed to maintaining high ethical 7 May 2010 to holders of ordinary shares standards of business practice, and we expect the registered on 16 April 2010. same from our employees, agents and others with Going forwards, the Board will look to maintain whom we transact business.
Steps are being and grow the dividend in a way which reflects the taken to reinforce our existing compliance overall performance of the Company and the programmes to ensure these standards are general economic and financial conditions in the maintained.
principal markets in which the Company and its Board changes subsidiaries operate.
During the year, there have been a number of Concluding comments Board changes.
The Boards review of the Companys strategy We were delighted to welcome Manfred confirmed that Charter will continue to focus on the Wennemer who was appointed as a Nondevelopment of ESAB and Howden as a means of Executive Director with effect from 26 March generating long-term value for shareholders.
Until recently, he was Chief Executive of part of this will be to maintain Charters financial Continental AG, the international manufacturer of strength, which will allow it to continue to invest in tyres and equipment for the automotive and the growth of the businesses and, where the transport industry.
opportunity arises, to make acquisitions.
James Bruce stood down as Senior Independent The Board remains confident that the Company Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the will make further progress in 2010 and that the Remuneration Committee at the Companys long-term prospects of both businesses and the Annual General Meeting in April 2009.
I am sure industries in which they operate remain strong.
that Shareholders will join me and the rest of the Lars Emilson Board in thanking James for his contribution and Chairman wishing him well for the future.
Grey Denham has 23 March 2010 replaced him as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Charter International plc Annual Report 2009 05
