4 Business overview Statement by the Chairman During 2009 three significant landmarks were reached: Group revenue exceeded 500 million, underlying profit before tax exceeded 100 million and our market capitalisation increased to over 1 billion.
It is very satisfactory to report another In the last twelve months, we have Highlights year of substantial growth in earnings, reorganised our operational structure Revenue up 42% to 503.9 million combined with excellent cash generation into three geographical divisions - Europe, and a strong balance sheet.
The International Underlying operating profit from three significant landmarks were reached: division will drive our expansion outside continuing operations up 20% to Group revenue exceeded 500 million, Europe and the USA.
In addition, we 101.9 million underlying profit before tax exceeded have consolidated the corporate and Underlying operating profit from new 100 million and our market capitalisation management structure within these divisions acquisitions: 12.8 million increased to over 1 billion.
All three are into strong product-focused groupings Underlying profit before tax major achievements that highlight the in Countermeasures and Energetics, in growing stature of the Group.
order to enhance the capabilities offered up 38% to 102.6 million to our military customers.
As a further The Group generated an underlying profit Underlying earnings per share development, significant strengthening of before tax of 102.6 million, an increase up 33% at 213p our sales and marketing functions, in terms of 38% on the previous year.
The Board Basic earnings per share up 62% at 199p of both the seniority and number of staff, recognises the very significant growth in has taken place across all of the businesses.
Key information earnings over recent years and is, therefore, recommending a final dividend of 36p.
Balance sheet, cash flow and debt Underlying profit before tax This gives a total dividend for the year of The Board has always been aware of the 50p, an increase of 43% over last year.
requirements to retain a strong balance 102.6m sheet, avoid excessive borrowing, generate The order intake for the Group increased by 55% to a new annual record of 627.6 million, solid operational cash flow, and structure a 38% debt repayment profile that would ensure and we finished the 2009 financial year Underlying earnings per share with an order book of 559.0 million, 37% that the Groups growth objectives could higher than last year.
This provides a strong be achieved, within reason, unhindered by financial limitations.
This has been foundation for further growth in 2010.
213p successfully achieved in the past, and the I am delighted to report that all of our recent issue of $280 million of new fixed 33% recent acquisitions have performed well.
interest loan notes repayable between Two of these acquisitions, in particular, Dividend per ordinary share 2016 and 2019, similar to the issue made delivered outstanding performances in November 2007, will maintain this policy.
Simmel Difesa, which we 50p acquired in 2007, had another excellent Group strategy year, generating a further 54% growth The Board reviews the Groups strategy 43% in annual revenue.
NIITEK, which we on a continuing basis, and once a year acquired in December 2008, was also a Before goodwill adjustment arising from formally meets to discuss, in some detail, recognition of tax losses, intangible amortisation star performer, generating 45.6 million of the next five years, considering all the main arising from business combinations and revenue in just ten months of ownership.
factors as far as can be determined which gain loss on fair value movements on NIITEK is the worlds leading manufacturer derivatives of 6.8 million 2008: 16.5 million.
may impact beneficially, or otherwise, on of vehicle-mounted mine detection Group performance.
Whilst it is not our systems, and its products are gaining intention to produce a financial plan for five considerable momentum in Afghanistan, years, inevitably the impact of the Boards where its technology is at the forefront of deliberations is subject to a financial protecting the US military from the threat evaluation.
The recent annual exercise of improvised explosive devices IEDs.
would suggest that we should be able to maintain our current highly successful In November 2009, we completed the growth strategy.
acquisition of Hi-Shear Technology Corporation, a leading manufacturer of Board of directors high reliability energetic products for use It was announced to shareholders in the in key US space and defence programmes, November 2009 Interim Management including satellites, missile defence and Statement that as I have been your Chairman aircrew egress.
The business will enhance for twelve years and am now in my seventy our position in the space sector, and offers second year, provision should commence for us an entry into the important market for my ultimate succession.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 5 That process is now under way and will Remuneration Committee.
However, the Although the Group is regularly presented provide for the new appointee to join proposed penal changes to the taxation of UK with many opportunities for acquisitions, the Board for a period of familiarisation occupational pension schemes will mean that we continue to be very selective and have prior to assuming the Chairmanship.
continuing to participate in such schemes will refused to bid the asking price or match Shareholders will obviously be advised be financially disadvantageous for our senior a competing offer in situations where the as further progress is made.
management, and this may well mean further quality of earnings, the earnings multiple changes to our UK pension arrangements.
and minimal asset backing suggest that the During the year, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman return on investment or the risk-reward and Mr Evans were both re-appointed The triennial actuarial valuation for the UK ratio could not be justified.
Shareholders as non-executive directors for a further defined benefit scheme is currently being can rest assured that the Board will three year term.
Any deficit on the scheme which continue with this policy.
Sir Peter Norriss and Mr Much will reach is agreed at the end of this process is unlikely the end of their second three year terms to be significant to the Group.
Shareholders inevitably will wish to know the as non-executive directors.
It would be my Boards views on two major topics the war Dividends intention to recommend to the Board that in Afghanistan and future defence budgets.
For many years the Group has maintained a their current appointments be extended until The Board believes that substantial forces will policy of increasing dividends commensurate the new incumbent has arrived, to assist in a be required in Afghanistan for many years with the rise in the Groups profitability.
The US and UK defence budgets At the half year, with underlying profits appear to be under threat and this will have In this era of enormously enhanced up approximately 40%, the Group paid an impact on the global defence market.
corporate governance, the responsibilities an interim dividend of 14p 2008: 10p, However, the Board believes that the majority and time commitment of non-executive maintaining this relationship.
Although the of our niche markets will be unaffected and directors serving on the various Board Group has announced underlying earnings our strategy for growth remains unchanged.
committees has increased significantly, growth of 33% for the full year, the Board and I would like to thank them for the With our wide spread of customers, products is recommending a final dividend for 2009 diligence with which they have fulfilled and capabilities, and our considerable of 36p, giving a total for the year of 50p.
such obligations, in particular the Chairs of abilities to respond rapidly to the militarys As the dividend is still covered 4.3 times by the Audit and Remuneration Committees requirements, I am very confident of our underlying after tax earnings and with a solid The Rt Hon Lord Freeman and Mr Much.
Our proven balance sheet and cash flow, it is believed that strategy, the strength of our order book, the Group is well positioned to increase the Staff and employees the impact of our enlarged sales force, the return to shareholders.
Shareholders should For a group with revenue of over contribution from our latest acquisitions, and not assume, however, that this is a change 500 million, it is surprising that we our secure financial fundamentals should in our dividend policy.
In the last five years, employ only 3,349 people.
I welcome ensure that the Group will continue in 2010 the total dividend per share has increased to the Group all those who have joined with the progress of the last decade.
in the last twelve months, either to take up employment or through being part of Prospects an acquired business.
I hope that you will In the last decade shareholders have have long and rewarding careers with us.
received a substantial total return, with We have had another very successful year earnings per share growing from 14p in K C Scobie which is testament to everyones dedication 1999 to 213p in 2009, the dividend per Chairman share increasing from 5.5p to 50p over the and hard work.
The Board would like to 19 January 2010 thank all employees for their efforts in the same period, and the market value of the Groups shares rising dramatically from just knowledge that these will continue and will result in a successful 2010. under 2 to in excess of 29.
This has been achieved through a clearly defined policy Pensions of organic growth, a focused programme of The Group maintains a policy of trying to acquisitions, well-executed post-acquisition ensure, through one mechanism or another integration, and subsequent investment in all countries, that it contributes to schemes in product and facilities to deliver further for all employees who wish to make provision expansion.
The Board believes that there is for their retirement.
In the UK, our defined ample opportunity to continue this policy in benefit pension scheme remains open to Europe, the USA and other countries around existing members for future accrual, and the world, where joint ventures or new to new employees at the discretion of the start-ups could be the preferred option.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2009
