Chairmans Statement Big Yellow Group PLC, the UKs leading self storage brand Big Yellow, In March of this year the Group settled outstanding derivative the Group or the Company, is pleased to announce results for the positions with a weighted average expiry of 2.8 years on 190 million year ended 31 March 2009. of its debt at a cost of 14.9 million.
Simultaneously the Group rehedged 120 million for seven years at 2.99% excluding margin.
Trading conditions and lead indicators over the past two months have A further 70 million is hedged for four and a half years with the shown a noticeable improvement, although activity levels remain remainder of the Groups debt floating.
The Groups current average below those enjoyed prior to August 2007, the beginning of the cost of borrowing is now 3.7% reduced from 6.2% at March 2008.
reduces the Groups current annualised interest bill by approximately 5.4 million at current monthly LIBOR.
Financial Results Revenue for the year was 58.5 million 2008: 56.9 million, an Dividend increase of 3%.
Revenue for the fourth quarter was 13.9 million in line No Property Income Dividend is payable for the year, due to shadow with the same quarter last year.
capital allowances offsetting the Groups tax exempt profits.
The Board Adjusted EBITDA increased by 2% in the year to 30.3 million.
recommended suspension of the discretionary interim dividend in November 2008.
The reason for the suspension was to allow the Group The Group made an adjusted profit before tax in the period of 13.8 to retain operating cash surpluses to build out its existing pipeline of million down from 15.0 million in 2008.
The decline was primarily London stores without increasing debt levels.
The Board has therefore due to an increase in interest costs in the period, caused by higher not proposed a final discretionary dividend.
The dividend policy will be reviewed and the discretionary ordinary The Group made a loss before tax for the year of 71.5 million, compared dividend reinstated when that objective has been met and the Board to a profit of 102.6 million last year.
This loss is principally due to the feels it is prudent to do so.
reversal of some of the revaluation gains booked in the prior year: and the one off cost of unwinding various interest rate hedging arrangements Valuation and Net Asset Value in March.
The value of the investment property portfolio at 31 March 2009 was Cash generated from operations rose to 33.3 million in the year 735.1 million, down from 750.9 million at 31 March 2008.
The investment property valuation of the 47 stores open at 31 March Net bank debt of 308.1 million at 31 March 2009 2008: 282.3 million 2008 fell by 58.9 million, a fall of 8%.
This is offset by the increase to represents approximately 38% 2008: 33% of the Groups investment the portfolio of 43.1 million as a result of two new stores opening and property and development property assets totalling 808.7 million Sheen reopening, after redevelopment.
08 Big Yellow OVER THE LAST 10 YEARS BIG YELLOW HAS ESTABLISHED ITSELF AS THE UKS LEADING SELF STORAGE BRAND WITH CUSTOMER RECOGNITION EXCEEDING OUR NEAREST RIVAL BY THREE TIMES.
The 52.8 million net revaluation deficit recorded in the income Stores and the Brand statement was principally caused by an increase in implied stabilised Over the last 10 years Big Yellow has established itself as the UKs post administration yields which have moved from 7.67% to 8.64%.
The leading self storage brand with customer recognition exceeding our stabilised yield on a pre administration basis is 9.09%.
Encouragingly nearest rival by three times.
We believe that this will have a significant 53.4 million of the deficit occurred in the first half of the year with a impact as activity levels improve in coming years.
gain of 0.6 million in the second half of the year, helped by new store At the year end, occupied space in wholly owned stores represented openings.
1,732,000 sq ft, down 5% from 1,817,000 sq ft at the same time last Whilst we recognise that yields on commercial real estate assets more year.
This represents a 55% occupancy rate across all 50 stores open generally have increased significantly, we are sceptical that assets of at the period end 2008: 62%.
The opening of three wholly owned this high quality in this sub-sector, where there is a scarcity of prime stores in the year adding capacity of 206,000 sq ft, coupled with some product, could be acquired at these levels.
We estimate that there are occupancy loss in the same stores, has caused this reduction in the approximately 117 self storage assets of this quality in the UK of which average occupancy across the portfolio.
The remainder are owned by multi site A table summarising the performance of these 50 directly owned competitors, who we doubt are sellers of their assets, in line with stores over the year can be found in the portfolio summary on page 24. ourselves.
The portfolio of 32 same stores was 71% occupied at the end of the Land held for redevelopment or sale has been written down by 12.4 year 2008: 79%, with an average occupancy during the year of 75% million over the year, offset by a small gain realised on the disposal of 2008: 82%.
In addition these 32 stores achieved EBITDA margins of three pieces of surplus land.
The 25 freehold stores within the 32 achieved EBITDA The decrease in value of the property portfolio together with the cost margins of 70% in the year 2008: 71%.
of restructuring our interest rate swaps results in an adjusted fully Same store revenue for these 32 stores decreased 4% year on year, diluted net asset value of 457.0p, a decrease of 12% over the prior year.
9% caused by the decline in average occupancy year on year, offset by See note 14 for detailed valuation assumptions and adjustment to a 5% increase in average storage rents.
From May 2009, we have put purchasers cost assumptions.
through an annual storage rent increase of approximately 4.25% to 92% by value of the Groups 50 wholly owned open stores are freehold existing customers across the whole store portfolio, which will come including one long leasehold.
The freehold proportion will increase through in the first half of the current year.
In addition, we increased as the Group opens stores in the development pipeline, all of which empty room rates by approximately 5% on average across all stores are freehold.
Big Yellow09 Chairmans Statement continued Big Yellow Limited Partnership The Partnership or The seven freehold stores in the core Group consist of six prime sites Joint Venture in London Chiswick, Eltham, Enfield Gypsy Corner, New Cross and Our joint venture with Pramerica Real Estate Investors Limited is Twickenham, and one in central Guildford.
The capital expenditure that performing well.
Planning consents have been obtained on all but two would be required to complete the seven wholly owned development of the sites.
The Partnership has enjoyed considerable benefits from sites, including Twickenham which opened in May and the completion falling construction prices and interest costs, reducing the capital of the purchase of Enfield is approximately 53 million.
It is too early to make a definitive judgement but the Approximately 60% of our total stores and sites by area are located initial trading performance of the stores in the North and Midlands has within the M25 and 63 are freehold or long leasehold.
In the year we been relatively encouraging.
have opened six stores, including three within the Partnership.
We have obtained planning consents on nine stores since 1 April 2008, Armadillo Management Agreement including at Eltham where we have recently had our planning appeal We were pleased to be appointed by HSBC Specialist Investments allowed.
In addition on a further two sites applications have been Limited to manage a portfolio of ten freehold stores in the North, under submitted.
We now have consent on all but three of our development a five year management agreement, with the stores branded as pipeline of sites.
The Group will be entitled to certain management and incentive fees payable over the life of the agreement.
By the end During the year we sold 3.8 million of surplus land, and sold five sites of this calendar year, we will either part-own or manage 17 stores in to the Partnership for 22.8 million.
We now have 25 million of the Midlands and the North, giving us greater operational scale and surplus land which we are seeking to sell over the next 18 months.
Our People Property As we have consistently reported over the last seven years, the Big We now have 16 stores in the pipeline, which when fully developed will Yellow team has remained largely stable, both at Head Office and within represent an additional 1.05 million sq ft and when open will provide the stores.
Never complacent on this issue however, we are constantly the Group with a total of 70 stores and 4.45 million sq ft. 9 stores investing in our people, which we believe is reflected in the very high 0.55 million sq ft in the pipeline are held in the Joint Venture and customer satisfaction responses that we receive.
I am delighted that 7 0.5 million sq ft are wholly owned.
this year we will be celebrating the 10th anniversaries of 17 valued members of our team, who have been with us from the very early days The anticipated remaining capital expenditure on the nine stores in the of the business.
Joint Venture is 49.2 million, which is fully funded through equity provided two thirds by Pramerica Real Estate Investors and a third by the Group, with the balance provided from a committed development finance facility.
10 Big Yellow WE ANTICIPATE THAT, PROVIDING CONDITIONS CONTINUE TO IMPROVE, WE WILL OVER TIME MIGRATE FROM A HIGHLY DEFENSIVE STANCE TO A MORE AMBITIOUS AND OFFENSIVE STRATEGY.
We are very pleased to have been included in the Sunday Times We therefore remain highly focussed on risk and the downside but are Best 100 Companies to Work For list for 2009.
As a consumer facing beginning to turn our attention, and increasingly so, to the next phase business the wellbeing of our staff is of paramount importance and of growth and our strategy for continuing to build on Big Yellows position therefore my thanks and congratulations go to all who made it as the market leader and the most recognised brand in our industry.
possible, notably our Human Resources team.
We anticipate that, providing conditions continue to improve, we will In the year, David Ross resigned from the Board as a Non-Executive over time migrate from a highly defensive stance to a more ambitious Director much to my regret.
He remains a significant and supportive and offensive strategy.
Our four main objectives over the medium term are: I would like to welcome two new Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
Fill the vacant capacity of our existing store portfolio Tim Clark joined in August and Mark Richardson in July as Senior NonBuild out the sites which we currently own Executive and Chairman of the Audit Committee respectively.
Tim Clark Expand the store portfolio beyond the current commitment, with has recently retired from a long career at Slaughter and May, the last particular emphasis on London seven years of which were as senior partner.
Mark Richardson was a Reinforce and improve our already market leading brand position senior audit partner, working in the real estate practice at Deloitte LLP, from which he retired in 2008.
Already they have made a significant contribution to the Boardroom.
I would like to take the opportunity of thanking all the people who work at Big Yellow for their continued efforts, loyalty and hard work which, at the risk of repetition, really does make the difference between success and failure in our business.
Nicholas Vetch Outlook Chairman Lead indicators including improved customer reservations, the volume 15 May 2009 of telephone and web enquiries together with higher internet traffic give us cautious grounds for more optimism.
This would appear to be consistent with recent survey evidence showing a slowly improving picture in relation to housing transactions, albeit that these are coming off very low levels.
We have however no doubt that the recovery of trading to more normalised levels will take some time, given the continued restricted supply of credit and rising unemployment levels.
