6 Chairmans Statement The British Land Company PLC Markets Chairmans Statement The extreme financial market stress of the last 12 months continues to pose challenges to all businesses.
The world banking crisis is unprecedented in scale and complexity, and the efforts of We are well focused on the governments, central banks and regulators to support financial opportunities we now expect systems have only recently begun to take effect.
In the meantime we have felt the impact of a global recession.
The effect on the so called real economy has yet to be fully felt, as consumers and businesses adjust their activities to mitigate both operational and financial risk.
After a slow start, the response by governments to the slowing world economy has been massive its benefits will, of course, take time to flow through.
Schemes to restore banks ability to lend are significant: it is confidence in the ongoing availability of debt rather than its overall cost that is holding back activity, so it is very important that banks are restored to full operation.
We have also yet to see how the financial stimuli employed, including interest rate reductions, will affect personal and corporate behaviour.
Given the powerful opposing forces in the markets, the range of possible outcomes for the world and UK economy is certainly wide.
Against this background, the real estate investment market behaved no differently than other financial markets.
The turmoil dramatically hit valuations and introduced significant operational issues, not least reduced liquidity for transactions.
Initially values fell indiscriminately across the board, as in other markets.
The repricing was inevitably approximate and had less to do with changes in income security and longevity and more to do with the comparative pricing of alternative investments in a capital constrained environment.
As market uncertainty lifts over the coming months, property specific valuations will become based once more on observable evidence, particularly as regards the sustainability of income.
Prime property, whilst not immune, is the place to be.
Secondary property has further to go as income risk becomes more readily quantifiable.
Chairmans Statement The British Land Company PLC 7 In these circumstances our actions have been decisive, looking to raising is valued and important to the Board, and we acknowledge secure the Companys position and preserve its options.
We followed the confidence bestowed in us.
Whilst caution remains our master, basic disciplines: in the overall market conditions, caution dictated we are well focused on the opportunities we now expect to unfold.
that we should be net sellers and that we should revisit capital expenditure projects.
People We had a number of significant changes to the Board this year.
Four decisions defined the year: first, the landmark sale of the Sir David Michels stood down as a non-executive director at last years Willis building for 400 million in June, reducing debt with a view Annual General Meeting: we thank him warmly for his important to redeploying capital later for greater growth.
Next we deferred contribution over the five years with us.
We are pleased to welcome construction of 122 Leadenhall Street, reflecting heightened Aubrey Adams and John Gildersleeve, exceptional additions to our construction and letting risk.
Thirdly, in February we sold half our Board, who joined as non-executive directors in September 2008. interest in Meadowhall, realising our long held ambition to lighten our Due to the demands of other business commitments, Kate Swann weighting to this high quality steady performer, whilst simultaneously has decided not to put herself forward for re-election as a nonremoving 1 billion of debt from our balance sheet.
Finally we raised executive director at this years Annual General Meeting on 740 million from shareholders in a pre-emptive Rights Issue: an 10 July 2009.
We will be sorry to see her leave and thank her for insurance policy in an uncertain world which preserves our options her valuable contribution.
as we look to capitalise on market opportunities.
In November 2008 Stephen Hester left to take up his position as Results Chief Executive at The Royal Bank of Scotland.
We thank him for his In the year to March 2009 our portfolio declined 28% in value.
Taking excellent contribution to the leadership and development of British the Rights Issue into account, this valuation reduction took our net Land over the last four years and wish him every success with his asset value down from 1114 pence to 398 pence per share.
an average lease length of 13 years and a 96% occupancy level, the valuation decline to date has been similar to IPD, the industry After a few months during which I held the reins as interim Executive benchmark, in which the comparable factors are nine years and Chairman, I was delighted to announce in January 2009 the 91% respectively.
We expect to see these factors recognised, as appointment of Chris Grigg as our Chief Executive.
Chris brings deep secondary property is repriced.
Indeed, we are encouraged by early knowledge of the investment and financial sectors from his time at signs of price stabilisation for prime, as equity investors begin to Goldman Sachs and wide management experience from his roles at return, and expect the gradual re-emergence of pricing differentials Barclays.
His background and skills are already blending strongly between prime and secondary.
with those of British Lands well established management team.
Dividends It is to the credit of all at British Land that our team has responded We recognise the importance of dividends to investors and have with focus and dedication to the tasks in hand during these times my increased the absolute amount paid out, reflecting the increased especial thanks for their resilience, determination and support under equity base after the Rights Issue.
Our last quarterly dividend for the the heavy demands arising out of a difficult year in the markets.
year to March 2009 is 6.5 pence per share.
Adjusting for the effects of the Rights Issue the full year dividend is 29.8 pence per share, slightly ahead of the prior year.
For shareholders who wish to reinvest this fourth quarter dividend in the Company an enhanced scrip alternative will be offered, to enable receipt of shares instead of a cash dividend.
Further details have Chris Gibson-Smith been provided with the Annual General Meeting notice circular.
Chairman 20 May 2009 For the year to March 2010, the quarterly dividend is being continued at 6.5 pence per share, in line with guidance given at the time of the Rights Issue, equivalent for the full year to 26 pence per share.
Looking forward The Board is focused on developing British Land as a leader amongst global REITs maximising shareholder value through the cycle.
The markets may be volatile and at times threatening but we have the disciplines to ride through the rougher moments and to capitalise on opportunity.
In spite of absorbing an adjustment to our property values of some 37% from the peak of the property market, we remain well capitalised with long leases, high occupancy and long fixed rate debt.
Our sights are now set firmly on the next stage of the course and on maximising the benefits of our relative strength.
Investor support for our equity
