Section 1: Overview CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DESPITE A YEAR OF GLOBAL ECONOMIC TURBULENCE, CHLORIDE HAS DELIVERED ANOTHER YEAR OF GROWTH IN ORDERS, SALES, PROFITS AND CASH.
A RESILIENT BUSINESS up 30% at 110.0 million.
Adjusted we increased our shareholding in DB Despite a year of global economic operating profit increased by 29% Power Electronics, India DB to 49%.
turbulence, Chloride has delivered to 46.4 million 2008: 36.1 million.
We now operate this business as a another year of growth in orders, sales, Underlying sales growth in constant subsidiary of the Group as we have profits and cash.
We continued to currency was 10% and the operating effective management control.
Our concentrate on executing our proven margin increased for the seventh shareholding in DB will be increased strategy and maintaining our focus successive year by 0.7 points to 90% in July 2009.
We acquired on those markets that offer long-term to 14.2%.
Power & Electronic Services Limited growth potential.
Cash and cost in Ireland to establish a presence management has been a priority Adjusted profit before tax increased in this important market.
In the UK, through 2008 and we nished the by 31% to 43.7 million 2008: we invested in our service business financial year with lower net debt 33.3 million, giving adjusted earnings by acquiring Siemens UK UPS service whilst maintaining investment in per share of 11.5p 2008: 9.5p, activities and, shortly after the period people, in bolt-on acquisitions and an increase of 21%.
Basic earnings end, Malcolm Power Systems in further development to the geographic per share were 10.6p 2008: 10.0p.
We acquired Protech balance of the business.
Signicantly, Services to develop our service the businesses outside our core market Operating cash ow was 43.0 million capability in the USA.
We expanded of Western Europe generated more 2008: 30.0 million, representing our sales and service network with than 43% of sales in the year.
93% of adjusted operating profit, new businesses and ofces opened despite an increase in stock and in Russia, Kazakhstan, The Philippines The mission-critical importance of debtors commensurate with the and Vietnam and, since the year end, reliable and high quality electrical growth of the business.
In all cases we won power is recognised by our blue-chip business rapidly.
customers, and this ongoing market Net debt for the year was reduced need, combined with our strong service to 15.4 million 2008: 21.8 million Our manufacturing joint venture in business, broad geographic spread as operating cash ow was more than Shenzhen, China has developed quickly, and excellent cash generation, provides sufficient to fund acquisitions including supplying new, upgraded products a sound basis to trade through more further investment in DB Power to European and Asian markets.
turbulent times and positions Chloride Electronics, capital expenditure, This low cost facility will help to well to offer excellent growth potential dividend payments, tax and interest.
underpin margins in a more competitive over the longer term.
Product development STRATEGIC INVESTMENT remained a focus.
Our R&D teams now KEY FINANCIALS We continued to make investments include the DB capability, and many Total sales increased by 22% to to improve the geographic and market new products were launched during 326.7 million 2008: 267.6 million, sector balance of the business, and the year to maintain our technological with product sales up 19% at to develop our market leading total leadership position.
216.7 million and service revenue solutions offering.
Most signicantly, 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2009 RESILIENT BUSINESS 22% 29% TOTAL SALES INCREASED ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT TO 326.7 MILLION INCREASED TO 46.4 MILLION 2008: 267.6 MILLION 2008: 36.1 MILLION BOARD dividend of 1.85p per share, gives a Chloride, which has a robust business Keith Hodgkinson, the Groups former dividend for the year of 4.7p per share model, supports mission critical Chief Executive who retired as a an increase of 18% on the prior year.
business systems and public director on 29 July 2008, ended his Subject to shareholders approval at the infrastructure.
Despite the more consultancy arrangements with the Annual General Meeting AGM, the challenging environment, with robust Group on 30 November 2008. final dividend will be paid on 3 August service revenues and cash generation, 2009 to shareholders on the register and a strong balance sheet we expect In December 2008 we announced the at close of business on 10 July 2009. the Group to show resilience.
Mindful addition of John Hughes to the Board of this we continue to review carefully as a non-executive director.
John is BALANCE SHEET STRENGTH all our markets and manage closely Chairman of Spectris PLC, Telecity Chlorides record of prudent balance our cost base.
Group PLC and Intec Telecom Systems sheet management and strong cash PLC.
The Board will benefit from his generation has served it well during We continue to execute our strategy, extensive experience in the electronics, the exceptional upheaval in markets with further careful investment in data centre, and IT industries.
Cost control and higher growth potential markets and cash generation, together with close sectors, and in the technology and PEOPLE management of the debt facilities, services that meet the demands of Chlorides people are at the heart of the were priorities for the business during our customers.
Accordingly, we are Groups success and the service we the year.
We were able to successfully confident in the longer term prospects offer our customers.
On behalf of the renegotiate replace, on sensible terms, for the business.
Board I would like to thank them all for all expiring facilities.
This focus on cash another year of excellent performance.
generation allowed us to reduce net NORMAN BROADHURST The Chloride Academy, now in its debt signicantly and means that the CHAIRMAN second year of operation, has gone from Company has more than sufficient strength to strength.
The Academy headroom to continue investment demonstrates Chlorides commitment across the business.
to the training and development of its people.
I am also pleased that courses OUTLOOK are now being offered as part of the Chloride operates in global markets services we provide to customers.
with robust long-term growth characteristics, driven by increasing DIVIDEND Digitisation and rising Energy demand.
The Board is pleased to propose a final dividend of 2.85p per share We enter the new financial year with 2008: 2.40p, reecting our continued an order book at record levels led by confidence in the Companys long-term Industrial Systems, but remain cautious prospects which, with the interim about the short term.
