Chairmans statement Derwent Londons strong performance demonstrates the robustness of the groups business model even in extreme market conditions.
The strength and potential of our portfolio, and the resilience of its rental income, provide us with an engine for managed growth.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 6 Overview Overview Derwent Londons strong performance during as a REIT, will all be paid as a Property the year demonstrates the robustness of the Income Distribution on 17th June 2010 to groups business model even in extreme shareholders on the register on 21st May market conditions.
Together with the interim dividend, flexibility of the groups financing arrangements which was maintained at 8.15p per share, and managements ability to operate successthis makes a total dividend for the year of fully in challenging circumstances, meant 27.00p per share, an increase of 10% on that Derwent is the only REIT in the FTSE 350 2008.
This reflects the boards commitment not to have raised equity during 2009. to a progressive dividend policy balanced by prudent cash management.
The group excels in creating a unique brand of well-designed offices in favoured central The group continues to be in excellent London locations that provide tenants with financial health.
Balance sheet gearing contemporary space at mid-market rents.
has been reduced to 62.2% from 71.2% This attention to value and design contributed a year earlier and unutilised, committed to the completion of over 100 lettings during bank facilities increased to 425m as at 2009.
Taken with the strong performance 31st December 2009 from 291m last in 2008 when we completed 82 lettings, year.
All financial covenants were exceeded this is testament to the success of our comfortably throughout the year, a reflection product in a tough economic environment.
of the attention given to our financing arrangements to ensure that we have a The focus of our portfolio was sharpened stable financial structure.
This approach and our balance sheet strengthened after continues to be a key feature of the 208.3m of sales of non-core properties.
Overall, these sales showed a discount of 7.4% from the December 2008 valuations.
The board As announced in September 2009, The momentum of the groups regeneration Chris Odom, our Finance Director for almost programme was maintained during the year 22 years, has decided to retire and he will with capital expenditure of 91.5m being be leaving the company after the annual invested on various projects throughout general meeting in May 2010.
been a key member of both the board and the executive management team, These achievements were reflected in the overseeing the successful financing of the companys share price performance which business through recession and expansion.
resulted in a total shareholder return of 87%, We wish him well in his retirement.
Chriss making Derwent the top performing REIT successor, Damian Wisniewski, joined the in the FTSE 350 in 2009. board on 1st February 2010 when Chris stepped down as a director.
Damian has No major acquisitions were made in the year had considerable experience within the as we did not identify any opportunities that property sector and is a welcome addition were sufficiently attractive to us.
However, to our well regarded management team.
the group has many potential schemes within its portfolio of income-producing assets Outlook that can be developed to commence a new Economic indicators have yet to demonstrate phase of innovative regeneration projects.
a sustained recovery but rents within our Capital expenditure for 2010 is anticipated central London villages have virtually stabilised to be approximately 63m with a further and, for the first time since early 2008, 200m which could be incurred from 2011 an anticipation of rental growth is emerging.
We have seen a significant recovery in property values in our operational area with Results yields reduced through a strong demand Following a first half in which property values for investment property, albeit with bank declined sharply, the second half of the year finance to the real estate sector remaining saw a strong rebound in our operational area in limited supply.
of central London, with an upward revaluation of our portfolio from the half year of 9.8%.
The strength and potential of our existing The net result was that, after a fall of 22.1% in portfolio, and the resilience of its rental income, 2008, the value of properties held throughout provide us with an engine for managed the year contracted by only 3.3% during 2009. growth that can respond to the prevailing This compares to a fall of 5.4% in the IPD economic conditions.
As the recovery of Central London Offices Capital Growth Index.
the central London economy appears to be gathering momentum, we continue to Adjusted net asset value per share at seek buildings where we can implement 31st December 2009 was 1,168p against Derwents distinctive brand of regeneration 1,226p a year earlier, a decrease of 4.7%.
and are preparing to advance the timing of some of our schemes.
I am confident that Recurring profit before tax for the year, with their skills, flair and experience, your which excludes a number of items described management team will continue to position in the finance review, was 60.2m against the group successfully through the next 23.3m in 2008.
Consequently, recurring phase of the central London property cycle.
earnings per share rose to 55.55p from 22.83p.
The board is proposing an increase R. A. Rayne The Charlotte Building, W1 in the final dividend of 15% to 18.85p which, 1 7th March 2010 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2009 7 Overview
