ChAIRmAnS STATEmEnT This was a year of intense activity for the Company in volatile conditions.
In the first half of the year we addressed rising gearing through a combination of an equity rights issue and asset disposals.
In the second half we took advantage of our strengthened position to acquire assets with good growth potential.
RESULTS Hammersons proven expertise in retail property puts us in a strong The first six months of 2009 saw continued falls in commercial property position to take advantage of opportunities presented by current markets.
values, however in the second half of the year investment activity In December we bolstered the portfolio with two significant acquisitions.
increased and there was a recovery in values, particularly for prime We invested 152 million in the Silverburn shopping centre in Glasgow, properties in the UK.
Against this background, although the value of undertaken in joint venture with the Canada Pension Plan Investment Hammersons portfolio has increased by 6% since June, for the year as Board.
We also acquired the Terrasses du Port retail development a whole it showed a decline of 9%.
Adjusted net asset value per share scheme in Marseille.
This three year project has an anticipated total was 4.21 at the year end, an 18% fall over the year, but a 13% increase cost of 400 million, and we expect work to start on site later this year.
At 31 December 2009 gearing was 72%, compared to In January 2010, following the appointment of administrators to Thornfield 118% at the end of 2008.
Ventures Limited, we were appointed as the development and asset manager for a partially completed retail development scheme.
The Groups adjusted profit before tax for 2009 increased by 16 million to 130 million.
However, reflecting the increased number of shares BOARD in issue following the rights issue, adjusted earnings per share fell We announced in August that John Richards would be retiring as Chief to 19.7 pence.
The Board has declared a second interim dividend of Executive.
John had been with Hammerson for nearly 30 years, the last 8.5 pence per share, with a scrip alternative, giving a total dividend for ten as Chief Executive.
We owe him a huge debt of gratitude for all that the year of 15.45 pence.
This compares with a pro forma dividend for he did for the Company.
The second interim dividend, in lieu of the I am delighted that the Board appointed David Atkins as Johns successor final dividend, will be payable on 1 April 2010, so that it will be received as Chief Executive.
David has been with the Company for 12 years, was in the current tax year.
Full details are included in the circular which will previously Managing Director of the UK business, and is one of the be issued to shareholders today.
outstanding property executives in the industry.
PORTFOLIO I am pleased to report that we made good progress during the year in the four areas which we identified as key: managing the existing I am pleased to report that we portfolio to ensure it is well positioned to benefit from the recovery in markets: focusing on letting remaining space in recently completed made good progress during developments: ensuring that we can exploit the development pipeline the year in the four areas which when conditions permit: and taking advantage of opportunities presented by current market conditions.
2 In 2009 we signed 395 leases in respect of approximately 176,000m across our portfolio.
In our shopping centres we continued to refresh the tenant mix bringing major international retailers into our schemes.
We opened Union Square, Aberdeen, in October.
Despite letting in the midst of the recession, the centre is over three-quarters let or in solicitors hands, and has an attractive retail and leisure line up.
We completed three retail park extensions, all of which were fully let at the year end, and our recently completed London office developments at 60 Threadneedle Street and 125 Old Broad Street were both over 90% let or in solicitors hands at 31 December.
At the year end the Groups overall occupancy rate was 95%, compared to 93% in June.
Our prime, modern portfolio, much of which we have developed ourselves, is at the forefront of sustainability in terms of design, construction, and resource utilisation.
We also engage actively with the communities in which we operate, not only creating jobs but running training and education programmes to support our retailers in their recruitment.
I am delighted that we have been recognised as an industry leader in this area.
4 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2009 OvERvIEw We welcomed Terry Duddy, Chief Executive of Home Retail Group, Recently there has been a recovery in property markets, supported to the Board as a non-executive Director in December.
John Clare, by strong investor demand and the policy of central banks supporting who served on the Board for 11 years and was, most recently, the Senior financial markets.
The economic outlook, however, remains uncertain, Independent Director, retired at the end of 2009.
I thank him for his and against this background the Board intends to maintain a prudent particularly valuable contribution to the Company over such a long approach to financing.
Tony Watson has succeeded John as the Senior Independent Our reinvigorated management team, under David Atkins, is focused on Director.
In November, Christophe Clamageran, Managing Director creating value by maximising the income from our assets and improving of Hammerson France, resigned to take up a position in the quoted operational efficiency.
We rigorously evaluate the projected performance French real estate sector.
of our properties against financial benchmarks and will progress selected developments.
We will continue to capitalise on opportunities which are FInAnCInG being presented by the markets.
This is likely to lead to more active Net debt at the year end was 2.1 billion, down by 1.2 billion from management and evolution of our portfolio.
97% of our debt is unsecured, and we have liquidity cash and undrawn facilities of 767 million, giving us good financial flexibility.
We have just 63 million of debt maturing before the end of 2011, and nearly three quarters of our debt is drawn from the bond markets, reducing our reliance on the bank market.
OUTLOOK On behalf of the Board, I would like to take this opportunity to thank John Nelson our shareholders for their continued support throughout 2009.
I believe Chairman the actions which we have taken put the Company in a strong position 22 February 2010 for the future.
Hammerson has a clear strategy of concentrating on high quality retail assets in the UK and France, whilst exploiting opportunities in the office sector.
The actions which we have taken put the Company in a strong position for the future.
John Nelson Chairman Hammerson plc Annual Report 2009 5
