| Business overview Chairmans statement leadership and ensure the cost base is suited to Order of the British Empire OBE in the New this more fluid environment.
Year Honours list published on 31 December 2005 for services to the defence industry.
Alex Over the past two years the senior always strived to be the best at whatever he management team has also been strengthened did and to get the best out of the people who considerably.
The quality of this team under worked for or with him.
He will be very sadly Andy Stevens is of a very high calibre and is missed by all his family, friends and colleagues.
focused on delivering excellence in all of David Turner Chairman our business operations.
After conducting a thorough search, we were delighted to appoint John Devaney as Highlights Corporate development an Independent Non-executive Director and Underlying EPS growth of 22%: 13% at We are continuing to develop and bring to Chairman designate from 1 February 2010. constant currency translation.
market products that are in high demand and John, who brings extensive business and at the leading edge of technology, primarily in leadership experience to Cobham, will succeed 214m of free cash flow with strong aerospace, defence and national security me at the conclusion of the Annual General operating cash conversion at 89% and markets.
This is fundamental to our strategy of Meeting to be held on 6 May.
gearing of 1.0 times net debt EBITDA.
achieving organic growth over a sustained 10% increase in final dividend to 3.97p.
period in our chosen markets.
The evolution of ethics processes within Retirement of Allan Cook and appointment the Group has been a key ingredient in the of Andy Stevens as CEO.
We will look to develop and maintain leading further development of corporate and social positions in each of these markets by investing responsibility.
This is discussed further in the Cobham has delivered double digit underlying increasingly in people and technology, and Chief Executive Officers review and in the earnings growth, reflecting proactive cost through strategic acquisitions.
This drive for report on Corporate Responsibility and control and a strong full year contribution from excellence adds to a sense of fulfilment for our Sustainability on page 30.
2008 acquisitions, with excellent free cash flow.
employees and is all the more important in 06 todays environment when a clear sense of Outlook The Group has a solid order book with a direction and focus will differentiate between Cobham has delivered double digit earnings book-to-bill ratio in the year of 0.93 times, an average performing company and one that growth in 2009, with good growth from the outperforms the market.
reflecting in part the difficult conditions in Groups defence and security businesses, commercial markets.
Headline revenue growth despite weakness in the Mission Systems was 28%, although organic revenue growth People Division.
At the end of last year Allan Cook retired after has been slower than anticipated at 1% for In 2010 organic revenue growth from the nine years as Chief Executive of Cobham.
In 2005 the three Technology Divisions, due to the Technology Divisions is expected to pick up, he led the wide ranging strategic review which extended trough in the general aviation, with the Defence Systems Division and the reshaped the business and resulted in its current business and regional jets markets.
surveillance business remaining strong and focus and strength.
Allan had an infectious Mission Systems progressively executing its passion and energy and he championed Underlying EPS grew 22% to 18.80p 2008: delayed shipments.
Commercial markets remain investments in people, technology and facilities.
15.42p primarily due to the improvement in the hard to predict but are unlikely to recover Groups underlying trading margin, favourable rapidly.
The Board expects further progress in In August 2009 we announced that Andy currency translation exchange rates and the full 2010, although earnings are expected to be Stevens, who was the Chief Operating Officer, year contribution from acquisitions completed more than usually weighted to the second half.
would succeed Allan as Chief Executive of the during 2008.
EPS at constant currency Group at the beginning of 2010.
Andy has translation rates was 13%, ahead of our target The Group has positions on long term already made a number of changes that will of high single digit EPS medium term growth.
programmes that afford excellent revenue enhance collaboration across the Group and visibility and leading edge technologies that increase the speed of decision making and The period of economic uncertainty I referred provide critical capabilities in areas of key change execution.
We wish him every success to in my statement last year continued defence priority.
These competitive in his new role.
The extent of Government advantages and positions in the national support to the major economies has inevitably security market and in faster growing Alex Hannam passed away suddenly on geographies give the Board confidence of had an impact on the rate of uptake on a 22 January 2010 aged 63.
He was a main continuing progress over the medium term.
number of military programmes as well as the Board director from 2002 to 2007, responsible parallel impact of a softer civil aerospace market.
for what is now Cobham Aviation Services This has placed pressures on our management and was a key contributor to the successful team as volumes have been varied and stresses strategic review undertaken in 2005.
He was have been greater than in past years.
They have David J Turner appointed as an Officer of the most excellent moved swiftly to strengthen operational Chairman, 3 March 2010 www.
