Chairmans statement I am delighted to report another year of excellent progress delivering further growth in operating profit, margin improvement and free cash flow generation, achieved against the backdrop of challenging economic conditions.
We continue to benefit from the consistent pursuit of the clear strategy we set out three years ago.
Our strategy is focused on the significant opportunities in outsourced foodservice and, increasingly, on developing our fast growing support services business.
We aim to do this in our core countries and market sectors.
MAP, our Management and Performance framework, continues to drive real efficiency across the Group.
By sharing best practice and innovation our people have achieved a real focus on growing and developing our business, whilst embedding a culture of operational efficiency across the Group.
As a result, we have driven significant cost efficiency, improving both our financial performance and our competitive advantage as we relentlessly seek to deliver the highest quality to our clients, whilst being the lowest cost and most efficient operator.
I am very encouraged that, whilst operating in a more difficult economic environment, we have continued to win a consistent level of excellent new business and to extend our relationship with existing clients in both food and multi services.
In an environment where decision making has been slower than usual, this is a real achievement.
As I talk to clients around the world, they are increasingly looking to us, as they review their cost base, to help simplify and consolidate their existing suppliers.
They are seeking to achieve greater efficiency and consistency through standardisation, whilst at the same time ensuring the highest quality service to support their business and meet the D elivering highest health, safety and environmental standards.
Our global reach, unrivalled local market and sector knowledge and world-class service capability across food and support services place v alue us in an ideal position to achieve these goals and to deliver the global consistency international organisations demand.
consistently Whilst our organic revenue was flat this year, the main driver of this has been lower client and consumer discretionary spend and fewer people on site within our more cyclical sectors of Business & Industry and Sports & Leisure.
The consistently high levels of new business Our consistent delivery of shareholder and client retention suggest that the slowdown in organic revenue is due to the short-term effects of the economic cycle and that the value is testament to the resilience and fundamental attractions of outsourcing remain.
Strong positions in our scope of our business model and to the key geographies are allowing us to benefit from the structural growth in food and support services and, as the global economies recover, fundamental attractions of outsourcing.
we expect to benefit from a cyclical upswing in demand.
Our performance and the steps we have taken to strengthen our balance sheet place us in a strong position to support our growth plans.
Whilst our primary focus is on organic revenue growth, we have made a number of excellent acquisitions in 2009.
In the USA, we have strengthened our ability to deliver support services to the Business & Industry and Healthcare sectors with our acquisition of Kimco and integration of Medi-Dyn and Professional Services.
In Sir Roy Gardner Germany, our acquisition of Plural is also bringing a new dimension Chairman to growth as clients seek to bundle food and support services.
I am delighted to welcome these businesses into the Group and I look forward to more value creating acquisitions as we drive our growth plan forward.
10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Commitment to Corporate Responsibility Our strategy Last year, for the first time, we set out a common set of measures and We have a clear, focused strategy that is targets by which key stakeholders can begin to evaluate our progress on our commitment to deliver the highest standards of responsible delivering value for our shareholders and business practice.
I am proud of the enthusiasm with which our teams has created a well-balanced and sustainable have pursued these targets, building on the excellent work that, in business model with significant opportunities many instances, was already underway in our businesses.
Based on the progress that we have made in the last year, we have set further to deliver continued growth.
goals for the year ahead which, along with our progress report, are detailed in the Acting Responsibly section of this Report on pages Focus on our contract foodservice business 34 to 39.
Grow our support services business Dividend increase The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.8 pence per share for payment on 1 March 2010.
This brings our total dividend to 13.2 pence, Committed to giving our customers a year on year increase of 10%.
superior levels of service Leadership Focus on driving cost efficiencies I am delighted to welcome Don Robert to the Board.
Don joined the Board in May of this year and is the Chief Executive Officer of Experian plc.
I would also like to express my thanks to Sven Kado, who retired from the Board on 5 February 2009, for his contribution over the years.
Position in the FTSE 100 Index As I stated when I became Chairman three years ago, strong leadership 2009 position as of is the key to the long-term success of any business.
The results we have achieved in the last three years and the platform for growth that 30 September 2009 we created are a testament to the stability and strength of the Board, 2008: 34 35 the Groups Executive Committee, led by our Chief Executive Richard Cousins, and our leadership teams around the world.
This will continue to be an important area of focus for me.
Total dividend up 10% Our people to 13.2p Wherever I go in the world, I continue to be impressed by the dedication, 2008: 12.0p commitment and skills of our people.
It is through their efforts that we 10% earn the loyalty of our clients and we drive the performance and growth of our business.
On behalf of the Board, I offer my sincere thanks to each and every one of our people for what they continue to achieve.
Outlook Compass Group share price performance The Groups core strategy remains focused on food and, increasingly, Compass Group share price performance Over the last vs FTSE 100 Index 2009 support services.
Whilst in the short-term the prevailing economic vs FTSE 100 Index 2009 3 years conditions are likely to continue to impact organic revenue growth, Compass FTSE 100 we are encouraged by the strength of the new business pipeline.
In the medium-term, the Group is set to enjoy the combination of 400 42.5% 11.1% structural growth in outsourcing and, as the global economies recover, 4.7% a cyclical upswing in demand.
In parallel, the continuing management 350 of the flexible cost base and the ongoing focus on MAP should deliver further cost efficiencies and margin progression.
In addition, the 0% 26.6% 300 strength of the cash flow and balance sheet is enabling us to continue to reward shareholders and to accelerate growth through value creating 250 infill acquisitions.
11.1% 200 Sir Roy Gardner Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Chairman 2008 2008 2008 2008 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 25 November 2009 The FTSE 100 Index has been rebased to the Compass Group 1 2 3 share price on 30 September 2008 344.00 pence year years years Compass Group share price performance vs FTSE 100 Index over the last 3 years 1 year 13% 2 years 28% 3 years 43% Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 11 Were all about great food and great service.
We work with some of the most renowned chefs in the world and employ those we believe to be the best in our industry.
Our chef development and training programmes ignite a passion for cooking in the future generations who will continue our fine culinary heritage.
The menus and dishes our chefs create and inspire provide a choice of high quality, nutritious and well balanced food to meet peoples needs during the day and throughout life, whether its: Refreshing tired minds and refuelling the productivity of people at work: Helping boost the concentration of young minds at school and college: Meeting dietary needs to help aid recovery in hospital: Creating that unforgettable dinner at the event of a lifetime: or Providing a taste of home when youre many miles away.
You can taste our passion for food in every dish we serve.
12 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Passionately Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2009 13
