02 Chairmans statement In our 2008 Preliminary Results announcement we detailed As a result of our ongoing focus on delivering a strong operating a series of management actions to meet the rapidly declining performance at both Aegis Media and Synovate, and further marketing environment we expected to face throughout 2009. corporate overhead savings, the overall performance of the Our objective was to limit the impact of an anticipated decline in business was strong, with underlying Group operating margins revenues by reducing costs and thereby maintaining reasonable falling slightly to 12.6%.
This was an acceptable result given that margins.
We set ourselves the task of being what we called organic revenue declined 9.7% in the year at constant currency.
resilient in what was clearly a substantial downturn, with several key areas of focus, in particular: Strengthening the conservative balance sheet continuing to deliver a strong operating performance in adding acquisition capability challenging markets, including right-sizing our cost base Our balance sheet remains strong and our lines of credit remain and making it more variable: secure.
Our financial and working capital and cash management maintaining a conservative balance sheet: and continued to improve and we reduced net debt by 40.3m in the year.
We also took the opportunity to change our overall strengthening the Board.
debt pro le in December by raising US$225m by means of issuing eight and ten year US Private Placement Notes.
This has Continuing to deliver a strong operating lengthened the tenure of our total debt facilities and has helped performance in challenging markets to increase the diversity of our capital structure.
At the half year we reported on a marketplace which was more In addition we have announced a proposed convertible bond depressed and volatile than we originally expected, with greater issue to raise 175m.
This ful ls, in the short term, a need to month-to-month variations.
At that time, our Synovate business, restore our previous levels of acquisition and development with its relatively high exposure to custom research, was most expenditure as markets become more stable and we explore impacted by the downturn, recorded a small operating loss.
more opportunities to make related acquisitions to strengthen Despite this, we expected a more stable second half across our market positions and provide additional capabilities whilst the business, including a recovery in Synovate and, allied to maintaining a conservative balance sheet.
Acquisitions are likely an increasing trend of cost saving delivery in the second half, to be plural rather than limited to one speci c deal.
we forecast that we expected to meet full year market expectations of underlying operating pro t. Strengthening the Board I am pleased to report we have met that forecast.
Synovate dealt We continue to strengthen the management of the Company at rapidly with a mix of market and management factors, delivered all levels.
There have been several changes of our non-executive further cost savings and improved ef ciencies, it also produced and executive directors, the impact of which has been very the expected revenue improvement, indicated by the level of positive for the performance of the Company.
The Aegis Media division remained robust with a more constant revenue performance slightly below expectations but supported by further cost reductions and a record year in net new business wins.
John Napier Chairman and interim Chief Executive 03 These Board changes were outlined in detail at the full year Outlook results last year and came into full effect in September.
I am The Board believes that our performance in 2009 places us in a pleased to welcome as new non-executive directors Simon good position to face the continuing challenges of 2010.
The world Laf n, Martin Read and John Brady, who bring a wide range outlook, although improved, is still very patchy and has elements of business, corporate and specialist expertise to the Company.
Despite this we see ourselves well placed to resume Simon Laf n has taken over from Brendan ONeill as Chairman modest growth.
Our increase in funding and liquidity has helped of the Audit Committee and Lorraine Trainer has become us to maintain a strong balance sheet and has also given us more Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with Charles Strauss scope to continue with some priority bolt on acquisitions.
stepping down from that role on his appointment as senior independent director.
I would like to thank Brendan ONeill for Our strategic challenge is to continue to transform the business, his long-term service to the Company and for his help and support to improve services and deploy technologies that meet the needs in recruiting new directors and achieving a smooth transition.
of our clients who continue to face a demanding and competitive market environment.
Competitive, quality services with a high There were also two changes of executive director with Nick standard of service and delivery will be a minimum requirement Priday stepping up to become Chief Financial Of cer on the for all successful companies.
We believe that we are well placed retirement of Alicja Lesniak and the appointment of Robert Philpott to continue to meet that challenge.
as an executive director this month recognising his successful transformation of the Synovate business following his appointment as its Chief Executive Of cer in September and the retirement Dividend of Adrian Chedore in December 2009.
On behalf of the Board, To support our con dence in the short-term outlook for the I would like to thank Alicja and Adrian for their contribution to Company, the Board has recommended a full year dividend the development of the Company during their time with us.
I am also pleased to announce that, following an external evaluation and review process, Jerry Buhlmann has been Our employees appointed Chief Executive Of cer of Aegis Group plc with effect from 1 May.
He will continue to report directly to the Board for the The response of our staff to a more demanding and less Aegis Media business.
Over the last 18 months Jerry, Nick and personally rewarding market environment has been professional Robert have worked well together in their executive roles and will and energetic, and they have responded well to a more provide continuity and have the ability to improve the performance challenging management environment.
On behalf of the Board, and growth of our businesses across the world.
I am particularly I would like to thank them all for their hard work and effort during appreciative of their support over the last 18 months.
They deserve what was a challenging year.
every credit for the delivery of a strong performance in what was an exacting year in 2009.
The Board will remain focused on performance, governance and the strategic development and growth of the business.
John John N Nap apiier er Chairman With a strong balance sheet and competitive, quality services we are well placed to face the Cost savings and improved continuing challenges of 2010 ef ciencies together with a strong operating performance in both divisions helped to maintain margins in a challenging global economy Additional information Financial statements Governance Aegis Group plc Business review 95 4094 2239 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Chairmans statement
