overview Chairmans statement a dramatiC year The Group has weathered the storm, taken advantage of a transformational acquisition opportunity and is now well placed to grow as markets recover.
This put us in a position to join the other major listed property companies in going to our shareholders with arights issue at the beginning of March.
With the support of ourshareholders, we raised 500 million andput our balance sheet back on a securefooting.
In May it became apparent that our main competitor in theUK industrial sector, Brixton, were themselves facing similar issues but had been unable to launch arights issue.
We therefore approached their directors with an offer to buythe Company.
The subsequent acquisition at a cost of 186.8 million net 1.1billion enterprise value was funded in part by a further issue of shares, raising 242 million.
The acquisition was completed at the end of August and added approximately 1.6 million sq m of property to our portfolio including 0.4 million sq m held within joint ventures.
In November, the Group was the first company in the real estate sector to take advantage ofaresurgence ofdemand for corporate bonds, through the issuance of a12year bond for 300 million.
overview of performanCe On a pro forma basis, adjusted for the rights issue and share consolidation, adjusted NAV per share fell from 459p to 362p.
This reflected the decline in the value introduCtion of the UK and Continental European property portfolios 2009 was probably one of the more dramatic years in the first half of the year, the subsequent recovery in in your Companys history.
The beginning of the year property values in the UK in the second half, and the sawtheglobal economy in turmoil, particularly in the impact of the placing and open offer associated with developed world.
The banking system was under threat the Brixton acquisition.
andproperty values were collapsing in the UK and the The recovery in UK asset prices has not been matched restofEurope.
Ourimmediate concern was to address by the occupancy market conditions where demand ourbanking covenants to ensure that if property values remained weak throughout the year.
This led to a felldramatically further, we would not risk breaching reduction in space leased compared to 2008 and an them.
The management team successfully agreed increase in space taken back from companies looking improvedgearing covenants bylateFebruary.
Notwithstanding these difficult market conditions, we have been able to deliver a satisfactory 4 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2009 level of underlying profitability, with a 10 per cent the worst of the Crisis interms increase in net rental income including four months of CommerCial property priCes may of Brixtons results.
be behindus, but we remain Cautious Adjusted earnings per share from our rental business about the rate offurther reCovery were 18.3 pence 2008: 29.1 pence.
The decline in 2010. from 2008 is primarily due to the dilutive effect of the rights issue.
The Group revised its dividend policy in March 2009 such that the level of dividends will be based upon underlying recurring rental earnings excluding trading profits losses Nigel Rich CBE, and other investment income.
The Board is recommending Chairman a final dividend of 9.4 pence per share, making a total for the year of 14.0 pence, in line with previous guidance.
economies appear to be slowly pulling out ofrecession, albeit with the UK lagging the main continental countries.
It is our intention to offer shareholders the opportunity toreceive the final dividend in the form of SEGRO plc The worst of the crisis in terms of commercial property shares as opposed to cash a scrip dividend alternative, prices may be behind us, but we remain cautious about subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to be held the rate of further recovery in 2010.
With high levels of on29 April 2010. industrial space availability across most markets and a slow economic recovery, particularly in the UK, we expect rental management and employees income to remain under pressure for some time to come.
The management team and all our employees have done Given these views, the Groups priorities for 2010 will a terrific job in such a challenging year.
We could not have continue to be to stay close to our customers and manage achieved the successes reported today without their skill vacancy levels: to recycle capital: to continue to proactively and hard work.
manage the Groups financial position and risk profile: and At the forthcoming AGM, Lord Blackwell and Stephen to capitalise on opportunities afforded by the current Howard will be retiring having each served on the Board economic environment.
During their tenure, they have overseen On behalf of the Board, I should like to thank our changes in Chairmen, Chief Executive and direction of the shareholders for the trust they have placed in us over Company and we are very grateful for their wisdom and thispast year.
With your support, the Group has guidance.
Andrew Palmer will succeed Lord Blackwell as weatheredthe storm, taken advantage of a Senior Independent Director and Chris Peacock will transformational acquisition opportunity and is become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
nowwellplaced to grow as markets recover.
Towards theend of 2009 we started a process, with external consultants, to identify two successors.
The Nigel Rich CBE, Chairman selection process is advanced and it is expected that the appointments will be announced shortly.
24 February 2010 In December, Lesley MacDonagh stooddown to focus on her charitable and other business interests.
Early in January, Ins Reinmann resigned having completed the reorganisation of our Continental European business.
We are grateful to them both for their contribution.
outlook A year ago, I said it was extremely difficult to forecast future prospects at a time of such great economic uncertainty but that I could only believe economies wouldbe better at the end of 2009 than they were inMarch.
We have already seen the recovery inUK commercial property prices, whilst in Continental Europe there are also signs of yields stabilising.
