DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans statement 2009 has been a year of substantial achievement of building on our strengths and would fight to for your company against a most difficult maintain our market leading position.
We took decisive confidence in our management team to take the management action, saw the opportunity for a action necessary to achieve these objectives and in value-creating transaction, which we the underlying opportunities for future growth in the successfully completed, and strengthened our wireless connectivity markets.
Consequently, we are well positioned to build on the strengths of the This confidence was well placed.
Management did enlarged CSR and return to growth in 2010. indeed take the necessary actions, delivering as we had promised on the efficiency programmes we put in A year ago, my comments focused on the place.
In addition, the pace of penetration of wireless unprecedented economic down-turn, following the connectivity and new applications has continued in global financial crisis and explained how we were mobile phones, in consumer electronics more widely actively taking steps that would position the Group to and in other sectors, such as automotive.
come through the difficult conditions that 2009 was expected to create.
The Board also recognised that challenging times can create opportunities.
We identified such an This year, my comments focus on CSRs opportunity in the acquisition with SiRF, a market achievements in 2009 and our ability to leverage these leader in location and related technology, and a through 2010 and beyond.
business we saw as being wholly complementary to our own.
As we expected, 2009 was indeed a very challenging year.
General consumer confidence across the world We announced the SiRF transaction in February last hit new lows.
For us, this was reflected both by year and completed it last June.
SiRF is now fully decreased levels of demand for consumer electronics integrated into CSR.
The new business contributed and also by substantial fide-stocking by our customers approximately $130.0 million in revenue, out of a total and by their distribution channels, particularly in the of $407.9 million for the second half of 2009. first half of the year.
Inevitably, demand for our Moreover, SiRF has enlarged our business, brought products, and hence our revenue, was directly talented new people into our organisation, expanded affected.
2009 revenue was $601.4 million, a fall of our technological capabilities, our customer base and $93.5 million, or 13% down, on the revenue of $694.9 our position in the Connectivity Centre, delivered million for 2008.
Ignoring the contribution to revenues synergies in accordance with our expectations and in the second half of 2009 from the acquisition of helped increase our cash flows.
SiRF, CSRs revenues on a like for like basis were approximately $471.4 million or 32% lower than 2008.
It has already added shareholder value, and it has The operating loss for the year was $15.9 million, helped CSR exit 2009 a stronger company, with against a loss of $8.5 million in 2008.
Underlying greater potential to further add value.
operating profit fell to $26.9 million in 2009 from $72.8 million in 2008.
We remain appropriately cautious about the global economic outlook for 2010. Who wouldnt?
But we A year ago, I nevertheless expressed the view that our believe that our strengths and the dynamics of our strategy and the prompt actions we had taken in market place mean we can look again to organic response to the downturn positioned us to work growth this year.
We also remain alert to possible through the difficult times, and that we were capable CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 2 further value-creating strategic moves.
We have no during this year, in projects that advance and go current specific intentions, but our world is not static, beyond our established strongholds in GPS and and we believe CSR has the proven ability to take Bluetooth.
advantage of selective opportunities and we end 2009 with a markedly strengthened balance sheet with over Board changes $400 million net cash and treasury deposits.
Following the completion of the SiRF acquisition, we were delighted to welcome Dado Banatao, SiRFs In preparation for the SiRF transaction, the Executive Chairman and Interim CEO, as a Nonmanagement teams worked together on a detailed Executive Director.
Dado brings a broad perspective and robust integration plan which we initiated as soon and extensive experience in our sector gained from as the deal was finalised.
In addition to giving us a executive and non-executive roles he has held in strong presence in Silicon Valley and China, the semiconductor businesses around the world and from acquisition brought a substantial number of new his background as an engineer, from which he is people into the organisation.
The combination of two credited with developing several key semiconductor technology companies with the inevitable overlap in technologies.
skill-sets and roles unfortunately meant that some redundancies in each of the formerly separate In addition, Kanwar Chadha, a founder and former organisations was necessary.
The redundancy Vice President of Marketing at SiRF, has joined our process was carried out with sensitivity but also Board as an Executive Director and our Chief promptly, allowing us to re-align the newly enlarged Marketing Officer.
Well-known and respected organisation and to focus on the future and the throughout our industry, Kanwar was instrumental in growth of the new business.
the growth and development of SiRF and brings extensive knowledge of the consumer technology Product portfolio landscape.
He has over 23 years of experience in 2009 saw us make significant progress on developing various, technical, marketing and management our product portfolio.
positions at leading organisations including S3 Inc. AQuesT, Inc. and Intel.
We launched our new BC7000 family of products which comprises our latest generation of Bluetooth As planned, David Tucker who was chairman of our with FM transmit and receive functionality.
This was Audit Committee and our Senior Independent positively received.
It has reinforced business from Director, retired in May last year.
We thank him very existing customers and has led to new demand from much for his expertise and valuable contribution to the others.
Board over the last five years.
Other key product launches have included our BT Following Davids retirement, Anthony Carlisle, who Wi-Fi module, our standalone Wi-Fi chip and CSR has been a non-executive director of CSR since July Synergy, our new software stack, which supports the 2005, was appointed the Senior Independent integration of multiple wireless devices and builds on Director, and Andrew Allner, who joined our Board in the successful legacy of our widely adopted BlueCore October 2008 was appointed Chairman of the Audit Host Software.
We are delighted to have such strong individuals to assume where David left off.
Following the acquisition of SiRF, we also secured business with SiRFstarIV, our next generation GPS A committed team chip and a direct reflection of the collaboration CSR is a global business serving a global market.
Our between the newly combined CSR and SiRF teams.
products are sold to leading electronic consumer brands who in turn sell to customers around the As Joep van Beurden, our CEO explores in his review, world.
Our key designs are created in the UK, US and we expect the sharing of knowledge, ideas and China, whilst most of our manufacturing takes place in experience within our enlarged technology teams to the Far East.
The consumers who rely on our result in further significant product announcements products are located around the world.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 3 DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued What we are today, and what we can become tomorrow, flow directly from the skills, dedication and attitude of our people.
I find it encouraging and energising to see so many different nationalities and skill-sets working together across the full range of disciplines in our organisation and across the geographies in which we operate.
Through their efforts, we are executing well, delivering on our Connectivity Centre and platform strategy and opening-up new areas for growth.
I thank them all unreservedly for their resilience, commitment and contribution.
2010 will be another challenging year, but I expect us to continue to build on the progress made in 2009.
We have an excellent and growing suite of products, a well-judged strategy, a strong financial base and a great team.
We look forward with confidence.
Ron Mackintosh Chairman CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 4
