Dairy Crest Annual Report 2009 6 Chairmans statement A sound financial performance This year has been an important one ensure that the business is well funded to Dairies division.
We chose not to replace for Dairy Crest in our journey from invest in its brands and into efficiency-driven Martin on the Board.
Mike Sheldon and Toby commodity processor to added value food capital projects.
Accordingly, it has decided Brinsmead, who are the Managing Directors manufacturer.
We have shown ourselves to rebase this and future dividends by 25% of our Household and Liquids businesses capable of developing our business in a and is recommending a final dividend of respectively, now report directly to Mark difficult economic environment by growing 13.0 pence per share.
As a result, the total Allen.
This structure is working well.
Since brands and improving operational efficiency.
dividend for the 2008 9 financial year will the end of the year David Richardson has In these circumstances I am able to be 20.1 pence.
Looking forward, the Board announced that he will leave the Board report a sound financial performance.
will seek to resume its progressive dividend when a suitable replacement has been Our Foods division benefited from brand policy from the rebased level whilst seeking to found.
We thank growth and delivered strong margins.
Our maintain dividend cover of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
Martin and David for their contributions.
Dairies division faced a more challenging The strong performance by our brands I continue to value the relationship environment and its profits were adversely this year was very encouraging.
Clover has we have with our dairy farmers who have affected by high milk purchase prices and recovered from its product recall in May supplied us with milk during the year.
They weak dairy commodity markets.
Overall 2007 and both Country Life and FRijj have play a key role in our business.
It is important Group profit before taxation increased 56% responded to increased marketing activity.
that we continue to take their views into to 103.2 million and earnings per share Cathedral City goes from strength to strength account as we move forward and I believe increased 41% to 56.8 pence.
However and is a key element of the improvement we have the right structure in place to do this.
Group adjusted profit before taxation fell we have made to our cheese business over The improvements we have made this 8% to 79.5 million and adjusted basic the past ten years.
We now have a very year would not have been possible without the earnings per share fell 13% to 45.0 pence.
well invested cheese supply chain, which hard work of all our employees.
We have a We made good progress on a number has been completed this year with our new strong workforce, led by an experienced and of fronts.
In addition to the ongoing growth packing facility at Nuneaton.
There is still a well-motivated leadership team.
In the tough we have seen in all our key brands, we significant opportunity to develop branded trading environment we failed to achieve the continue to reduce our costs and become cheese sales further and we are well placed demanding targets we had set ourselves and more efficient.
Structurally, we made two to lead this.
Our French spreads acquisition as a result our employees have not received disposals and we continue to invest to has lived up to the high expectations we had discretionary bonuses this year.
However improve our asset base.
Importantly in the when we purchased this business in 2007 and we value the work they have done and I current market we renewed our main bank provides a valuable platform into Continental would like to thank all employees for their facility for five years and now have no debt markets which over time will enable us to contribution to the success of the Group.
facilities maturing before November 2011. develop our overseas business further.
Overall I am pleased by the progress the The Board remains confident that the Our Dairies division has made real Group has made and that our business is business is well positioned to deliver in the improvements in its manufacturing and becoming increasingly robust.
We remain a year ahead and, following the disposal of distribution cost base.
Coupled with savings broadly based dairy business and I am happy its stake in Yoplait Dairy Crest, the Groups from restructuring our head office we have that this model offers a strong base from net debt position has improved considerably improved our competitive position.
which we can continue to grow.
and the Group is operating comfortably During the year we chose to sell our Stilton within its banking covenants.
However, in and speciality cheese business and the 49% light of additional cash contributions to the share in Yoplait Dairy Crest.
Looking forward pension fund and the dilutive effect of the this will allow us to increase the Groups Simon Oliver Chairman Yoplait Dairy Crest disposal on 2009 10 focus on brands which we own outright.
18 May 2009 earnings the Board has reviewed the Groups There has been one change to the Board Excludes exceptional items, amortisation of acquired dividend policy.
The Board has concluded this year: the departure of Martin Oakes from intangibles and the interest credit in respect of that it is sensible to conserve cash and his position of Executive Managing Director, fide ned bene t pension schemes.
