CHAIRMANS REVIEW Given the difficult conditions, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 3.25 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for the full year to 5.0 pence per share.
We intend to resume the Groups progressive dividend policy when the economic environment improves.
Outlook In anticipation of another difficult year we will continue with our cost management actions, reduction in the losses in our new businesses and focus on cash generation which will be aided by lower capital expenditure.
In the medium term we will continue to focus on improving the dayto-day execution of our service-led business model and better leverage David Newlands, Chairman our size and expertise.
In January Thierry Falque-Pierrotin joined the Board as Chief Executive Dear fellow shareholders, officer when Jean-Nol Labroue retired.
I would like to take this Welcome to the sixth Annual report for Kesa Electricals opportunity to thank Jean-Nol for his contribution to the Groups success over the years and welcome Thierry to the Group.
Thierry In conditions that remained extremely difficult throughout the year has already imposed himself and is making quick decisions on the I am very satisfied that the Group again demonstrated the strength issues of the business and I look forward to working with him over of its cash generative business model.
This strength, together with the coming years.
our significant unleveraged freehold property portfolio, extended debt facility and operational restructuring actions, gives us confidence Finally, I must thank all our hard-working staff across the Group.
It has that the Group is well positioned for another challenging year.
been a difficult year, and we would not have delivered such a solid performance without their loyalty and dedication.
David Newlands Chairman Kesa businesses Core businesses Our businesses operate in 12 France: Darty European countries, matching UK: Comet our Group trading philosophy with local retail knowledge and Other established businesses Holland: BCC experience.
Belgium: Vanden Borre Czech Republic Slovakia: Datart Other new businesses Italy: Darty Switzerland: Darty Turkey: Darty Spain Portugal: Menaje del Hogar 4 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2008 09
