chairMans sTaTeMenT Detailing our Progress and Results John Lovering our choice of structure was vindicated as the rm placing element Chairman was several times oversubscribed and the discount was one of the 22 october 2009 lowest seen amongst the raft of capital raisings undertaken across the market during the first half of the calendar year 2009.
The board did not declare an interim dividend for 2009, nor has it proposed a final dividend for the year.
however, we are committed to returning to paying a dividend as soon as it is nancially prudent to do so.
We were delighted to welcome two new non-executive directors to the board at the beginning of august.
Martina King was formerly Without doubt, the 12 months to september 2009 will be remembered Managing Director, europe of Yahoo Limited and we therefore as one of the most difficult years for the UK retail sector in particularly look forward to her input as we seek to move our multigenerations.
The collapse of confidence in the banking sector last channel business forward.
sophie Turner Laing, currently Managing autumn sent shockwaves through the high street which continue to Director, entertainment and news at British sky Broadcasting plc, reverberate today.
our financial year coincided with the worst of this will provide valuable insight in the areas of media and marketing.
period following the collapse of Lehman Brothers which occurred just as we have announced today, we also look forward to welcoming nigel three weeks into the year.
northridge to the board as a non-executive director in January 2010. nigel spent 32 years with gallaher group plc, becoming the group Despite this, we emerged stronger.
our balance sheet has been chief executive in 2000, a position in which he oversaw significant restructured thanks to our successful capital raising.
our market share growth in shareholder value.
has increased and our business model has strengthened.
our goals of increasing own brand penetration, growing internet sales and building i would like to thank richard gillingwater, peter Long, Jonathan Feuer our international footprint have all been progressed.
and philippe costeletos who left the board during the year for their important contributions to the business.
We had foreseen a very tough year.
We planned our business on lower sales and a reduced level of stock purchases.
We focused on cash i have today announced that i intend to stand down from my role as margin rather than sales growth.
We put even more emphasis on chairman and will retire from the board on 31 March 2010, thereby delivering outstanding value.
our own bought ranges, especially providing ample time to appoint my successor.
i am proud of what Designers, performed much better than concessions, reecting the has been achieved over the past six years and we have set the direction significant improvements our design and buying teams have delivered for a sound future.
Debenhams is a well managed, properly nanced in these ranges, giving us the confidence to undertake the biggest company with a clear and successful strategy and a number of expansion of own bought space Debenhams exciting development opportunities.
We introduced new brands and management has a deservedly high reputation departments across the store, targeted at areas and there is a great depth of talent throughout where we believe there are further market share the company.
our board functions well, its in this difficult opportunities for us.
We opened five new stores members have wide experience, high intellect year we generated in the UK, creating a very welcome 800 new jobs.
i believe our a further 11 new international franchise stores operational and financial controls are best in more PROFIT were also opened in eight countries.
i hope my successor enjoys the role as much as i have.
than last year Ultimately the success of our strategy can be seen in that in this difficult year we generated Looking forward, whilst the board remains more profit than last year.
only a handful of cautious about the wider macro economic other retailers will be able to say this.
The board believes this is a environment, our company has performed well in what has been an significant achievement for which the entire Debenhams team should unprecedented tumult throughout 2009.
We continue to have a self help be commended.
plan which is being rigorously executed and will maintain our drive to focus on cash margin.
as a board, we had said for some time that one of our key goals was to remove leverage as an issue for Debenhams so that our focusand The board would like to thank every member of the Debenhams team indeed the wider worldscould return to operational and strategic for rising to the challenge we have faced and helping us to emerge issues rather than the balance sheet.
To this end, we launched a capital from very testing times as a stronger business.
We, as shareholders, are raising in June.
We chose to do this through a placing and open offer very fortunate to have such loyal and hard-working employees whose route due to the unusual nature of the shareholder register.
contribution in the past couple of years has been immense.
4 Section 1 overview Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 The iMporTance oF DeTaiL Detail is about helping customers to create the perfect ensemble effortlessly.
Jacket, trousers, waistcoat, shirt, tie, shoes and handkerchief all by Jeff Banks at Designers at Debenhams.
5 Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 1 overview
