Diageo Annual Report 2009 8 Chairmans statement in our response to the current economic turmoil.
This has been characterised by speedier decisions and better execution putting those decisions into action.
In the longer term, we believe that we have built a solid foundation for the S trong and sustainable organisation.
Today it is imbued with an even businesses are characterised stronger sense of its values and in particular by committed and eff ective the need to retain the highest of standards leadership at all levels of through these diffi cult days.
that Diageo can emerge from this period with an enhanced reputation if we continue to build a relationship of mutual trust with all of our stakeholders, but we also have to recognise that in some cases changing circumstances demand that we make major changes to our business footprint, even if this can be diffi cult and initially controversial.
I remain convinced that in time we will receive credit for doing the right thing for the business, provided that we treat those who are impacted with compassion and respect.
We have also made additional and Strengths through important investments toward securing leadership industry leadership in the years to come.
We have spent much time seeking to better In my business life I cannot recall a period understand the crucial role our customers of greater volatility than we have seen in the play in choosing our brands versus those of past year.
Through it, Diageo has once again the competition.
That has led us to a delivered a resilient performance despite signifi cant investment in strengthening our these most diffi cult of circumstances.
We are already seeing the do so we have had to manage the business added value of that investment.
In particular we have We made changes to the Executive had to demonstrate great speed and Committee and to the Board.
Last Autumn fl exibility to respond to the myriad of the Executive Committee was extended to challenges which emerged in many of give us clearer lines of sight to every part of our markets.
Our results show considerable the organisation and every region in the success in doing so.
I believe that move has been an They also clearly demonstrate the important step and was a vital component importance of individual and corporate of our quick response to the economic leadership in such unpredictable times.
We have also announced the Strong and sustainable businesses are appointment of Peggy Bruzelius and Betsy characterised by committed and eff ective Holden to the Board and said farewell to Bill leadership at all levels of the organisation.
We welcome Peggy and Betsy Recognising that, Diageo has invested and we give Bill, who has made a signifi cantly in its leadership capital through memorable and lasting contribution to our the Diageo Leadership Performance deliberations, our thanks and very good Programme.
More than 900 of our senior wishes for the future.
managers were enrolled in the programme itself, while its principles, and many of the modules from which it was composed, were cascaded across the wider business.
The results have been important.
In the short term the Programme allowed us to create Dr Franz B Humer a consistency of purpose and approach Chairman Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Chairmans statement 9 Global volume share of premium spirits 1 2 6 5 4 3 1 28% Diageo 2 19% Pernod Ricard 3 10% Bacardi 4 6% Brown-Forman 5 5% Fortune Brands Dow Jones corporate sustainability assessment % 6 32% Other 80 Source: Impact Databank Top 100 Premium Spirits 70 February 2009 60 50 40 03 04 05 06 07 08 Industry best Diageo Industry average More information online: download the corporate citizenship report at www.
