Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Chairmans Statement Well placed to deliver the Renewal and Transformation plan Sir John Collins John Allan and Sir John Collins Extraordinary times call for extraordinary effort, initiative plan and our determination to serve the customer better and resilience.
These qualities have been delivered by is at the core of everything we are doing, in our stores, on John Browett and his executive in the financial year 2008 09. our websites, and in our infrastructure and back office.
Our intention is that the changes which we are making will improve After settling into the Company I asked John Browett DSGis competitiveness during the downturn and put the whether he could see a way of returning DSGi to greatness.
Group in a stronger position to benefit from recovery in the He replied: Yes, I can, providing we dont find ourselves in a future.
Your Board believes that technological innovation and deep recession.
Dont worry I assured him, there could be new product development in electronics and computing, together some cyclical downturn in the economy but I dont see why with the replacement cycle in white goods, will continue to it should be more than that.
The Chairmans crystal ball had make this a sector with attractive long term prospects.
The DSG Foundation support for the Switched on Communities John Browett has led his team in the design of the Renewal programme came to an end this year and I wish the four and Transformation plan for the Group which provides a practical charities supported through that programme the very best template for improvement in virtually every aspect of our for the future.
The Foundations focus going forward will be business, with one overriding priority serving the customer in supporting the fundraising efforts of our colleagues in better.
The extent to which we have undergone change in top stores in engaging with their local communities.
management and are now doing so in store design, layout and processes, internet operations, buying, distribution, systems Nicholas Cadbury, who was appointed Finance Director and reward is radical if not revolutionary.
It is being done with on 14 August 2008, and the Finance team have done an a very high level of support and commitment from employees outstanding job in leading the refinancing of the Group.
across Europe who believe it is the right thing to do.
The A very special thank you goes to Nicholas and his team positive aspect of a severe economic downturn is not only as it does to Helen Grantham and her legal team.
that it fosters the strengths associated with survival, but also We are delighted that John Allan has agreed to be our that any blockers to improving performance are swept away.
Chairman and we give him a very warm welcome.
I have The importance of completing all these changes and, in every confidence that John has the skills and experience particular, rolling out our new store formats with a more needed at Board level to ensure the successful completion customer-focused business model, coupled with the Groups of the Renewal and Transformation plan.
reduced earnings, called for refinancing.
The success of our Our thanks go to Count Emmanuel dAndr who has served recent Placing and Rights Issue together with renewed credit us well as a non-executive director.
His retail experience and facilities from our banks calls for me to thank our shareholders knowledge of Continental Europe has been of particular value, and banks for their faith in what we are doing.
My thanks also as well as being an excellent colleague.
to our advisers, whose support was excellent.
Your Board is ever conscious of the need to recover the share price and in due course, when affordable, reinstate a dividend.
The reduction in our market capitalisation in the past year was painful and demanded the actions we are sharing with you in this report.
Economic recovery is unlikely in the short term and therefore we cannot promise immediate earnings improvement.
We have found an extremely able Chief Executive whose retail skills are exactly what is needed for todays environment.
He Sir John Collins is well on the way to building the team needed to execute our Chairman DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 9
