ANNUAL REPORT AND 6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am delighted to report that the business has performed strongly in the challenging economic environment that has persisted through the last year.
The early actions to reduce costs in Peter Byrom anticipation of the global economic Outlook downturn and the weakening of sterling have Results in 2009 have demonstrated the contributed to these results.
Sales and underlying strength and resilience of the operating profits before exceptional costs business and although demand for new are again a record for the Group.
Cash equipment remains below levels experienced performance has been strong.
Net cash before world economies entered recession, inflow from operating activities exceeded the Board is optimistic about prospects for operating profits and the Group has a strong further progress in 2010 and beyond.
balance sheet and no net debt.
Actions taken at the end of 2008 and during Our commitment to new product 2009 have improved the operating efficiency of development has been maintained and we the business.
We have a full programme of new invested 11.5 million in research and product developments and we are preparing to development during the year.
increase investment in our sales capacity once we see improvement in market conditions.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.45 pence per share, making a total of 13.02 The Group has a strong balance sheet, is pence per share for the year, an increase of cash positive and remains well placed once 10 per cent over the dividends for last year.
global economies return to more normal levels of growth.
The results are a tribute to the professionalism and endeavour of the 2,070 employees of the Group around the world and I thank them for their efforts.
Jerry Smith, who has served as a NonExecutive Director on the Board for 23 years will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting in March.
We are grateful Peter Byrom to him for his wise counsel and considerable Chairman contribution to the Group.
