BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT As part of this series of actions designed to ensure the Group remains financially sound through this period of economic uncertainty, the Board has decided to recommend a reduced final dividend for 2008 09 of 1.8 pence per share 2007 08: 6.2 pence which, together with the interim dividend of 2.6 pence, would give a total dividend for the year of 4.4 pence 2007 08: 8.8 pence.
The Board recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders and remains committed to the payment of dividends that reflect the sustainable earnings and cash generation of the Group over the cycle.
The financial and operational performance of the Group during the year are set out fully in the following reports, together with an assessment of the risks facing the Group, its performance on environmental and other matters of corporate responsibility and reports on the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
During these difficult times, the Board has maintained a strong focus on identifying and managing risks, ensuring the Groups financial position remains strong and on ensuring it is well placed, financially and operationally, to benefit from recovery in our markets, whenever that might happen.
An increased focus was placed on ensuring the business strategy was clear and being implemented as well as on shorter-term financial strength.
The strategies for our businesses are set out in this report.
The I am confident the Group will Board continues to keep the composition of the Group under review.
continue to manage the impact The Nomination Committee reviews longer-term succession plans both for the senior Executive team and for the Board.
There were no Board of the difficult trading environment.
However, with effect from 16 June 2009, George Adams was appointed Divisional Chief Executive of Spicers, In common with most manufacturing businesses, DS Smith saw its markets our Office Products Wholesaling division, and as a result stood down weaken during the course of our financial year.
The pace of decline from the DS Smith Plc Board when his appointment was confirmed on ,  26 May 2009.
George had served as a most effective Non-Executive pressure on prices.
The demand for packaging materials for industrial Director of DS Smith from 29 January 2008 and I would like to thank .
Reducedpaper him for his contribution.
demand led to significant reductions in corrugated case material CCM Jonathan Nicholls will join the Board of DS Smith Plc as a Non-Executive prices on the continent, which in turn led to lower CCM prices in the UK.
Director with effect from 1 December 2009.
Jonathan has considerable The impact of these exceptionally difficult market conditions was mitigated by Board level experience, including having been Group Finance Director of the continued implementation of the Groups strategy and managements Hanson Plc and, most recently, Group Finance Director of Old Mutual Plc decisive response to implement an action programme to reduce costs and and we look forward to his contribution.
Richard Marton will retire from the Board on 31 August 2009 having As set out in the Strategy section on pages 10 and 11, management served DS Smith Plc as a Non-Executive Director since 13 March 2000. has refocused the business over recent years.
The Group is now a net Richard has made an outstanding contribution during his time in office consumer of CCM.
The major markets for its corrugated boxes are for the and I thank him for his sound advice and wise counsel.
fast-moving consumer goods sector, where it has established a leading On behalf of the Board, I thank all our colleagues across the world for position in the supply of retail-ready packaging.
It has focused on their ongoing efforts and commitment.
The trading environment in the year innovation in both products and services, in particular, linked to its ahead is likely to prove at least as challenging as was the financial year expertise in recycling and solving customers packaging problems.
I am confident the Group will continue to manage As a result, although adjusted operating profit of 94.0 million 2007 08: the impact of this difficult environment, benefiting from its strong market 119.6 million and adjusted earnings per share of 12.6 pence positions and the results of its action programme.
2007 08: 19.9 pence were down on the previous record year, these results reflect a robust performance in such difficult market conditions.
Management reacted swiftly to the changing market.
Early in the financial year they renegotiated the Groups major borrowing facilities, extending repayment terms at limited cost.
In December, they announced a comprehensive programme to reduce costs and conserve cash that will result in savings of over 26 million a year.
The programme to control PETER JOHNSON working capital was further strengthened during the year such that, despite Chairman the capital expenditure to convert the newly acquired paper machine at Kemsley, and the cash costs arising from the action programme, the Group remained cash generative.
Free cash flow, before dividends, exceptional items and net acquisitions, was 59.9 million 2007 08: 84.8 million.
