02 Overview eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairmans Statement Charles Berry Chairman Adjusted diluted earnings per share adjusted for I am pleased to present this amortisation of intangible assets, ePT-funded charges, exceptional costs and associated taxation has increased annual report, which charts the by 26.0% to 13.38p.
progress of another successful The Group held net cash balances cash balances less year.
The year has seen eaga loans and borrowings of 31.3m 2008: 14.8m at the year end.
Our cash generative business model, alongside the continue to build on its track agreement of new credit facilities, provides the flexibility to support the Groups future growth opportunities.
record as an established growth business and despite the Dividend An interim dividend of 1.1p per Ordinary Share was paid on wider context of a challenging 23 March 2009.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 2.4p per Ordinary Share, payable on 13 November 2009 to economic climate, eaga has shareholders on the register at 16 October 2009, resulting in succeeded in increasing both a total proposed dividend for the year of 3.5p per Ordinary Share 2008: 3.0p per Ordinary Share, an increase of 16.7%, revenues and profits across reflecting our confidence in the growth of the business.
each of its business segments.
Strategy Our strategic aims for 2009 were to enhance our business The drivers within eagas markets remain strong and with process outsourcing BPO activities, to continue the a range of emerging opportunities in our core markets, development of our activities in the domestic heating and the business is well placed to make good progress.
We are renewables markets and to capitalise further on our position focused on building on the Groups strong foundations to within an expanded Carbon Emissions Reduction Target achieve further diversification and growth.
I am pleased to report progression on all of these aims.
Results The Groups results for the year to 31 May 2009 show double The agreement reached with Government to extend eagas digit growth in revenues and profits before exceptional contract to deliver the Warm Front Scheme to the end of the items.
Group revenue increased by 15.6% to 738.9m current Government spending period, 31 March 2011, with 2008: 639.0m and Group earnings before interest, tax, provision for a further two year extension beyond that point amortisation of intangible assets, eaga Partnership Trust strengthens our position in this key outsourced contract.
ePTfunded charges and exceptional costs EBITA Our delivery of the Digital Switchover Help Scheme for the grew by 24.1% to 47.2m 2008: 38.0m.
It is pleasing BBC is also well underway, with eaga interacting with more that 12.9% of our 15.6% revenue growth was organic.
than 1.1m eligible customers as part of that delivery.
Our activities in this area have been further strengthened as we were appointed by the Department of Culture, Media and Sport DCMS to deliver the digital switchover contract for care homes across the UK.
Overview eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 03 Our activities in the social housing heating market People and Culture have recovered well in the year following last years The performance eaga achieves is delivered by its people challenges around contract profitability and integration.
or, as we like to call them, Partners.
Our Partners sustain This recovery, together with several new contract wins and and energise our approach to business, which is based the development of a number of strategic partnerships on a number of core values.
Those values are at the heart to provide heating services, ensures that we have a strong of eagas success and are focused on a primary aim of platform for continued growth in the domestic heating delivering outstanding customer service.
We encourage and renewables markets.
and actively facilitate an operating culture in which our Partners can anticipate, understand and act upon the Our delivery into the CERT market over the period has been needs of our customers.
at a greater volume than ever before we estimate that our activity with all six utilities has saved more than 9.1m On behalf of all stakeholders, I would like to personally tonnes of CO during the year ended 31 May 2009.
The roll thank all of our Partners for their commitment, dedication 2 out of the outsource contract for ScottishPower has been and overall contribution to our continued success.
a success for both eaga and our customer.
We believe the opportunities in the CERT market remain strong, supported The Board by the Governments announced 20% increase to the I am grateful to my Board colleagues for their ongoing CERT obligation and reinforced by ongoing consultation support and counsel over the past twelve months.
to extend the CERT period by a further 21 months to Their continued care, determination and foresight have 31 December 2012. contributed hugely to eagas development during the year.
The domestic carbon saving agenda was further boosted The Board welcomed Roger Aylard as a Non-Executive in the year with the launch of the Community Energy Director and Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2009.
This initiative funded by energy Roger retired as Head of UK Investment Banking at Deutsche suppliers and generators is intended to incentivise higher Bank in August 2007 after a career encompassing ten value retrofit interventions, such as renewable technologies years in the oil industry, six years as a research analyst and and external wall insulation, in communities across the UK, fifteen years in corporate broking and corporate finance.
where the Group is strategically well positioned.
During this time he acted as senior advisor to a wide range of major UK companies.
His insight and experience add As we look forward to 2010 our key objectives are to considerable value to a well established team.
continue to diversify our contract base in the BPO market, continue to grow our domestic heating and renewables businesses through the further development of key strategic partnerships, and to capitalise on the ongoing opportunities in the CERT and CESP markets.
2009 3.5p 17% 3.0p 2008 Rise in total dividend per share 04 Overview eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairmans Statement Continued On 27 April 2009, eaga announced that John Clough MBE, Outlook the Companys Chief Executive since its formation in 1990, The 2009 results demonstrate the Groups ability to deliver was to retire with immediate effect.
Johns decision to retire continued strong growth, despite difficult economic allows him to protect his long-term health.
On behalf of the conditions.
The secured sales order book delivers strong Board and his friends, colleagues and Partners, we thank revenue visibility for 2010 and eaga continues to be well him for his service and recognise him for the immense positioned in its core markets, which offer positive and contribution he has made to eagas growth, development sustainable opportunities for further growth.
Building on our established platform, the Group has a Following Johns retirement, the Board announced that clear focus on opportunities in the BPO, domestic heating Drew Johnson would be appointed Chief Executive with and residential carbon saving markets to actively grow immediate effect.
Drew has been the key architect of a diversified customer and contract base.
Trading during eagas commercial strategy and operational development the first quarter has been in line with expectations and that have been key to the growth of eaga throughout the Board is confident that eaga will continue its growth, the eighteen years he has been with the business.
His extend its successful track record and make further understanding of eagas business model and knowledge significant progress in the year to 31 May 2010. of the markets in which the Group operates is unparalleled.
The Board is delighted with Drews appointment as Chief Executive and believe that he, together with the backing Charles Berry, Chairman of a strong senior management team, will further develop 1 September 2009 the strategic direction of the business.
