04 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 q CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholder In a tough economic I am pleased to report that your Company has delivered a resilient performance in what has been one of the most challenging trading environment, our resilient environments for many years.
Weak consumer confidence, combined with fuel and currency volatility, has made for an uncertain business climate performance is a testament in general this year, but especially so for airlines.
to the quality of our Against this backdrop, easyJet is one of the few airlines anywhere to remain profitable this year with underlying pre-tax profits of 44 million, compared business model.
These results were driven primarily through good revenue performance offsetting the 86 million unit increase in fuel costs and 31 million reduction in interest income.
We also took advantage of capacity cuts by other carriers to advance our position in the European short-haul market, gaining share in important markets such as Milan, Paris, Madrid and London Gatwick and increasing our slot portfolio at congested airports by over 10%.
Business model and strategy In a tough economic environment, easyJets continued resilient performance is a testament to the quality of its business model.
Europes premier air transport network, our strong customer proposition and service delivery are linked to a highly efficient operating model that is predicated on simplicity and low cost.
As part of the annual strategy process, easyJets Board has agreed a fleet plan 1 that will enable your Company to deliver growth of around 7.5% per annum over the next five years.
This fleet plan gives easyJet the ability to take advantage of the substantial commercial opportunities apparent in European short-haul aviation, whilst maximising margins and delivering positive cash generation beyond the period of the higher than normal capital expenditure associated with the replacement of the more expensive Boeing subfleet.
The plan nevertheless retains sufficient in-built flexibility to allow a slowing of growth should our margins come under pressure.
Whilst some of our strategic debate during the past 12 months was perhaps a little too public, I believe that the subject matter and intensity of the discussion around the most appropriate rate of growth for the Company evidences the commitment of individual Board members to the Companys cause.
I am pleased to report that the whole Board believes we have come to a sensible outcome.
05 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Overview q Business review Governance Accounts Other information Board Industry regulation At easyJet we believe that good corporate governance is vital.
At the heart The regulatory framework we operate in is crucial, as alongside ensuring that of this is a strong Board team who both support and challenge the executive we can operate in a safe environment, it has a significant effect on both our cost management so that together, we can unlock easyJets huge potential, whilst base and the opportunities available for future growth.
We are working across appropriately managing the risks associated with operating in such a volatile Europe to persuade governments and the European Commission to deliver industry.
easyJet is an exciting business that readily attracts talent and hence regulation that provides stability, is sensible and allows us to compete fairly.
I am pleased to report on how we have been able to further strengthen the easyJet was born out of the liberalisation brought about by EU open skies Board in the past year.
and has been at the forefront of promoting fair competition for the benefit of consumers.
We continue in that spirit with our campaign to ensure that local Sir Michael Rake was appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent airport monopolies are not able to capture monopoly rents.
We also need Director in June.
Mike is an experienced international business leader and to ensure that easyJet continues to operate on a level cost playing field with is currently Chairman of BT Group plc prior to which he was Chairman legacy European carriers absent protectionist measures imposed by national of KPMG International.
We have also committed to a greater focus on the remaining Keith Hamill joined the Board in February.
Keiths background as Chairman structural inefficiencies, such as the management of airspace and its associated of Travelodge and Chairman of Go Fly!
Ltd, prior to its acquisition by easyJet charging mechanisms.
in 2002, is highly relevant and I have welcomed his robust and analytical We know it is important that our industry addresses its wider responsibilities, approach to the assessment of risk in our Board discussions.
in particular to ensure we play our part in tackling climate change.
We have Bob Rothenberg MBE, senior partner in the accountancy firm of Blick now taken the first steps towards aviations entry into the European Emissions 2 Rothenberg, was appointed to the easyJet Board as a Non Executive Director Trading System, where we will operate within a system that caps overall CO2 with effect from 1 August 2009.
His appointment was made under the terms emissions, ensuring they are put on a downwards path towards agreed of the Companys Articles giving Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou, the Companys targets.
However, environmental measures must deliver real gains in founder, nominee director appointment rights on behalf of himself and environmental efficiency, and cannot be used as a way to simply tax easyGroup Holdings Limited, his private investment vehicle and a shareholder passengers and so we are continuing to work for the reform of UK Air in easyJet plc.
Bobs appointment was formally endorsed by the members of Passenger Duty APD to operate as a genuine incentive to drive the Companys Nominations Committee and he brings valuable financial environmental change rather than the current blunt instrument to swell advisory and general business experience.
Sir Colin Chandler stepped down earlier in the year as Chairman after seven Conclusion years service to the Company.
We thank him for his significant contribution throughout his tenure, as he chaired the organisation during the period which As easyJet navigates what is still an uncertain and difficult landscape, I am saw easyJet achieve its current leading position in the European market.
confident that easyJets strengths will continue to prevail and that it will Jeff Carr, our Group Finance Director since 2005, also left to take on a larger emerge as a clear winner in European short-haul aviation.
I would also like in challenge and we thank him too for his contribution.
Whilst we complete particular to thank Andy Harrison and his executive team for so successfully the search process for Jeffs successor, we are very pleased that Mark Adams managing the Company during such a challenging year.
has joined us on an interim basis as Chief Financial Officer.
Mark has held a number of senior financial positions across a range of sectors and we welcome his contribution during this interim period.
People It has been a challenging year for easyJets people.
I have spent a lot of time in the past few months with the easyJet senior management population and can testify to their exceptional level of passion for and belief in easyJet.
In a tough industry this level of engagement is a real differentiator to the performance of the business.
The commitment and enthusiasm of our crew continues to be a Sir David Michels key driver of our successful customer proposition and the whole Board is Non Executive Interim Chairman grateful for the continued professionalism and commitment of all our people.
Note 1: Measured in seats flown.
