ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 02 Group Overview Chairmans Statement The prevailing economic conditions during 2009 meant that ENRC Dr Johannes Sittard faced challenging headwinds for a significant part of the year.
I was Non-executive Chairman particularly impressed with the performance of our senior management team who responded quickly and effectively to ensure that the impact of the downturn was minimised as much as possible.
Their focus on cost control and reducing inventory levels played a significant part in ensuring that the Group performed well into the recovery.
Despite the economic difficulties, industry production levels recovered progressively during 2009, particularly as a result of the continuing demand for commodities from China.
This environment also supported strengthening prices.
By the end of the year our own production levels were largely back to effectively full available capacity.
During the year ENRC began to deliver on its stated intention to develop as a more diversified mining group.
We took advantage of the acquisition opportunities available and in September 2009 we announced our offer for Central African Mining & Exploration Company PLC CAMEC which became unconditional on 9 November 2009.
Work is ongoing to integrate CAMEC into the ENRC corporate structure, as our Other Non-ferrous Division, and we 2009 demonstrated the inherent believe that in due course CAMECs assets, and our own expertise, will provide us with a competitive advantage in the region.
In strengths of ENRCs low cost and February 2010 we entered into a conditional agreement to acquire a integrated operations.
Management 90% interest in Chambishi Metals PLC a processing facility in Zambia.
Management plans to combine Chambishi with the existing performed extremely well through the Other Non-ferrous Division facilities in the Democratic Republic downturn and, as the year progressed, of Congo DRC.
The Chambishi acquisition was completed in early April.
had the Group advantageously positioned to deliver with the upturn.
In June 2009 Miguel Perry stepped down as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Group.
In September 2009 we The strength of our balance sheet was announced the appointment of Zaure Zaurbekova as an Executive also important and it assisted the Director and Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to this Ms Zaurbekova had been the Groups Deputy Chief Financial Officer and acting Chief business as a base from which to invest Financial Officer after Mr Perrys departure, coming to the role with and to grow by acquisition.
We continue significant experience of leading the finance function in Kazakhstan.
to evaluate all opportunities, both organic and acquisitive, with care to ensure that value is delivered for all shareholders.
ENRC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 03 In August 2009 we announced that Sir David Cooksey, nonexecutive Chairman, was leaving ENRC to take up the position of Chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited.
After consultation with our major shareholders, I was honoured to be asked by the Board to become Chairman in his place.
Felix Vulis, previously our Chief Operating Officer in Kazakhstan, was promoted to be an Executive Director and the Groups Chief Executive Officer, whilst our Senior Independent Director, Sir Richard Sykes, became Deputy Chairman.
Michael Eggleton, who had served on the Board since the IPO as a non-executive Director, left in 2009 to pursue other interests.
In January 2010 we announced the appointment of Professor Dieter Ameling as an independent non-executive Director.
Despite the considerable changes in the Boards composition since last summer, I firmly believe that the Groups continuing strong strategic performance demonstrates that our Board is committed to driving forward the businesses and strategy.
One of the issues of the year was the increase in the number of fatalities compared to 2008.
During the year we worked hard with DuPont to evaluate and improve safety management at our operational sites and this work is ongoing.
The project is a long-term one and it is too soon to measure the effectiveness of the new processes we have introduced.
However, any fatality is considered seriously and the management team have taken steps to increase their scrutiny of health and safety practices at our operational sites and have escalated the reporting process so there is greater accountability at a senior level.
We believe that the economic outlook will continue to improve during the course of 2010 and that greater stability than we have had in recent years will result in a more positive period for natural resources companies in the future.
Dr Johannes Sittard Non-executive Chairman CORPORATE INFORMATION RESERVES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW
