Chairmans Statement customer cuts in headcount and information buying gradually work We have come through a dangerous their way through into revenues.
year safely and are looking ahead at the opportunities and challenges we We acted quickly and early to restructure the business, cut costs and protect margins, and the adjusted operating margin improved from see.
Systemic collapse is never very far 24.5% to 25% despite the fall in revenues.
from financial markets, but the failure of The adjusted profit before tax of 63.0 million compares to a loss Lehman Brothers presented the biggest before tax of 17.4 million in the statutory results.
The statutory threat to the western financial system loss is stated after charging exceptional restructuring costs of 10.7 since the company began.
million, most of which was charged in the first half, which generated annualised cost savings of approximately 17 million: an exceptional impairment charge of 23.2 million, again most of which arose in the That threat tested our strategy, which emerged unchanged and first half: acquired intangible amortisation of 15.9 million: a foreign unscathed.
It tested our people, who responded magnificently, exchange loss on tax equalisation contracts of 19.9 million which though there were fewer of them at the end of the year.
It challenged is matched by a tax credit and has no effect on earnings a share: the strengths of our brands, which met the challenge.
It challenged and a foreign exchange loss of 7.9 million on restructured hedging our margins, and our investment in new products, both of which arrangements included in net finance costs.
The effects of the threat linger still, evidenced by lower revenues and a tough start to the new financial year, but the mood of Foreign currency movements have had a significant impact on both the company is positive and more adventurous than a year ago.
The revenues and net debt.
The group is exposed to foreign exchange risk crisis is not over, but we believe the group will emerge from it to enter on the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, which are hedged, a new era of growth.
and on the translation of the revenues and profits of its US dollardenominated businesses, which are not hedged.
The reported 4% Against a strong tide, we achieved an adjusted profit before tax of decrease in group revenues would have been a 16% decrease at 63.0 million for the year to September 30 2009, against 67.3 constant exchange rates, while the net benefit to adjusted profit million in 2008.
Adjusted diluted earnings a share were 40.4p 2008: before tax from foreign currency movements, after hedging, was 44.4p.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 7.75p giving a approximately 6 million.
The board announced its decision to increase its dividend cover at the Group revenue fell by 4% to 317.6 million, against 332.1 million in time of its half year results.
The proposed reduction in the final dividend 2008.
After a strong first quarter when revenues increased by 15%, reflects this decision, which arose after reviewing possible debt and we experienced a sharp fall in sales from January 2009 as customers cash flow outcomes in the light of events in world financial and imposed tight cost controls from the start of their new budget year commodities markets from 2007 onwards.
These reviews suggested in response to the world credit crisis.
This immediately translated that volatility in these markets had increased sharply, particularly in into falling revenues, although the year-on-year rates of decline the wake of the Lehman collapse.
The board concluded that such in advertising, sponsorship and delegate revenues in the second volatility may persist for some time, in spite of the recovery in parts of half were no worse than those experienced in the second quarter.
the financial markets, and that the dividend cover should be rebased Subscription revenues proved more resilient, increasing by 24%, but to a sustainable level for the longer term.
In future, the board intends the rate of growth has declined in the second half as the lag effect of to maintain a policy of distributing one third of its after-tax earnings to shareholders while delivering long-term dividend growth in real terms.
Net debt at September 30 was 165.1 million compared to 214.7 million at March 31 and 172.0 million the previous year end.
Approximately 80% of the groups debt is US dollar-denominated and the increase in the sterling-US dollar rate since March 31, combined with the groups traditionally strong operating cash flows in the second half, helped reduce net debt by nearly 50 million.
The groups net debt to EBITDA ratio, which is calculated on an average exchange rate basis, was little changed at just under two times.
04 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Strategy the United States are likely to be weak for the foreseeable future: and The companys strategy has been to build a more resilient and the threat of increased regulation of financial markets will continue to better focused global information business.
This strategy has been restrict capital availability.
executed through increasing the proportion of revenues derived from subscription products: accelerating the online migration of its print The return to profitability of most global financial institutions should be products as well as developing new electronic information services: a positive factor for trading in 2010.
However, the cuts in headcount investing in products of the highest quality that customers will value in and the restrictions on discretionary spend on marketing, training tough times as well as good: eliminating products with a low margin and information buying applied throughout 2009 are not expected or too high a dependence on advertising: maintaining tight cost to be relaxed quickly, and not before the start of our customers new control at all times: retaining and fostering an entrepreneurial culture: budget year in 2010. and generating strong cash flows to fund selective acquisitions to accelerate that strategy.
The group continues to trade in line with the boards expectations.
The first quarter of the new financial year is expected to be the The success of this continues to be highlighted by these results.
toughest: the board expects the decline in year-on-year revenues to Subscription revenues increased by 24%, in sharp contrast to the continue despite the benefit of cost savings implemented in 2009 and declines in other revenue streams, and now account for 47% of total favourable exchange rates.
Octobers revenues fell by 18% compared revenues against 37% in 2008.
Similarly, the profits from databases to a year ago.
From the second quarter, the year-on-year revenue and information services, which include some of the highest margin comparatives should become less challenging but the point at which products in the group and are derived mostly from subscription revenues start to grow again is dependent entirely on the timing and products, accounted for 36% of the groups adjusted operating scale of any recovery.
The focus on managing margins and reducing profits compared to 21% a year ago.
net debt will therefore be maintained, although the group has also stepped up its investment in new products and electronic publishing The tight control of costs and focus on high quality, high margin to take advantage of the recovery when it comes.
products was critical to the groups performance in 2009.
The adjusted operating margin improved to 25% as costs were restructured early in Capital Appreciation Plan the year, low margin products were eliminated quickly, and continued The board believes that much of the companys recent success has product investment ensured the growth in higher margin electronic been driven by the first Capital Appreciation Plan that was launched publishing products was maintained.
The CAP, a highly geared performance-based equity plan, has motivated and led to the retention of key individuals since it Looking ahead, the group remains keen to acquire small, specialist began, and adjusted profits before tax have trebled over the period.
information businesses that complement its existing activities and Shareholders at the last annual general meeting approved the provide scope for strong organic growth, although it does not expect introduction of a second CAP to follow the first once performance to complete any significant transactions in the next six to 12 months.
In 2009 the profit performance target was again Excess cash flows will be applied to investment in new products and exceeded, enabling the company to embark on the second CAP, for reducing debt.
which the Remuneration Committee has set a profit target of 100 million by the end of 2013, against the base profit of 62.3 million We think the strategy is robust and suitable for a wide range for CAP purposes achieved in 2009.
Details of the new CAP are set of trading conditions.
While the outlook for economic recovery out in the Directors Remuneration Report, and minor amendments remains uncertain, the board will continue to focus on managing to it will be submitted to shareholders at the annual general meeting costs, protecting our margins and reducing debt levels.
At the same time, we have stepped up our investment in technology and new subscription-based products.
Outlook Generally markets seem to have stabilised after an exceptionally difficult period and the outlook among our customers is more positive than it has been for some time, although this has not yet translated into improved revenues.
The broad sentiment is that global markets will continue to recover in 2010, but slowly.
The risks of further banking failures and a correction to the recent recovery in financial markets remain: the prospects for economic growth in Europe and Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 05 COMPANY ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS OUR GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE Chairmans Statement continued in January 2010.
The new plan will include many who were not in It was Euromoneys 40th anniversary in June.
To thank our clients for the first, colleagues who are a very important part of the companys their support and to explain the companys development strategy future.
The target is very challenging in what are likely to be volatile we arranged dinners throughout key cities, generally in emerging markets, but the new CAP will be welcomed most by those who relish markets.
The response, in difficult times, was even greater than we the opportunity to perform whatever the conditions.
It was clear that our brands had never been stronger.
Management As a tribute to Sir Patrick Sergeant, who founded the company, we Under the terms of my service contract, I am due to retire as the also announced a new Sergeant Intern Scholarship for graduates companys chairman at the annual general meeting in January 2010. from emerging market universities.
Following an independent recommendation from the nominations committee, the board has resolved to extend my retirement date I am also glad to tell you, in the same vein, that the Kalinga paediatric under my service contract by two years to the date of the annual eye hospital in Orissa, India, built and staffed through the efforts general meeting in 2012. and generosity of our shareholders, colleagues, and customers and which was officially inaugurated in March, continues to make good The board was strengthened in December 2008 by the appointment progress.
By September 30 approximately 43,000 children from very of another independent non-executive director, David Pritchard, who poor families had been screened at the Euromoney eye centre and at has extensive experience of the financial services industry and serves outreach camps, while almost 10,000 had been treated, or received on the companys audit committee.
In November 2009 we announced surgery.
Screening should increase further in 2010: we raised more the appointment of a new executive director, Bashar AL-Rehany, who money for Kalinga than we expected, and the additional funds have is chief executive officer of BCA Research, the groups single largest been used for a wider outreach programme.
On your behalf and mine, I thank all our colleagues, wherever they are Tom Lamont retired from the board in January 2009 after nine years and whatever jobs they do, for the courage and resourcefulness they of valuable service as an executive director and editor of Institutional have shown in the most testing year I have seen.
Now they prepare Investors newsletter division.
Michael Carroll, who has served as an for a recovery in a changed landscape.
executive director since 2002 in his capacity as editor of Institutional Investor, has indicated his intention to step down from the board at the annual general meeting in January 2010.
It was with great sadness in July 2009 that we reported the death of Christopher Brown, one of our longest-serving executive directors.
Padraic Fallon We miss his cheerful face in adversity and his unfailing energy greatly, Chairman and to perpetuate his spirit we have created the annual Christopher November 11 2009 Brown Innovation Prize for employees, the winner of which will be announced internally on each anniversary of Chriss birthday, February 6.
