Introduction Chairmans statement Experian delivered another strong performance this year against a backdrop of exceptionally challenging market conditions.
It is an achievement that clearly demonstrates the resilience of Experians core business and the benefits we derive from our broad portfolio of capabilities, but it has also shown just how quickly the Group can adapt to changing circumstances.
A major focus for us during the year We also expanded our global Despite the difficult market was to address the new priorities footprint, winning substantial conditions, corporate responsibility of our financial services clients, contracts in Eastern Europe and Asia remained a priority for Experian particularly in the US and UK, Pacific, and opening a new credit during the year and we considerably where the emphasis has been on bureau in Morocco.
In Latin America, widened the scope of our strengthening risk management where we significantly increased CR reporting to include the and collections activities across our presence during 2007 with the EMEA Asia Pacific region for the their organisations.
We responded acquisition of Serasa, our business first time.
We also provided greater by intensifying our client education went from strength to strength, focus for our global community efforts, reallocating sales resource meeting the need for more advanced programme by concentrating on and quickly bringing to market a wide credit reference and customer projects that provide financial range of countercyclical products management products.
education to vulnerable people and to satisfy the entire range of client that encourage entrepreneurial needs.
These products remain in Experians diverse and well skills combined with wise financial high demand and have secured balanced business model has been planning.
In the UK, we increased us a number of multi-country a major factor in our ability to keep the level of employee volunteering client contracts.
on growing through the current and won two awards from Business economic cycle.
However, we should in the Community.
Overall, Experians Consumer Direct also recognise the outstanding notwithstanding the economic business, which enables consumers efforts of the management team pressures and cost saving to monitor their personal credit files, in successfully redirecting our initiatives, the Group gave more grew strongly in both the US and business towards areas of greatest to our communities than in any UK as consumers chose to actively need and opportunity, while previous year.
Our continuing to reduce costs across increased investment in consumer the business.
Our people have Looking ahead, it is clear that the marketing, the growing contribution responded superbly to the economic environment will remain from affinity partners, such as challenge and I thank them all for challenging for some time to come.
American Express and Discover, their tremendous co-operation Experian has, however, strengthened and demand for new identity theft and energy.
its overall market position this protection products all contributed year, reduced its operating costs to Experian extending its lead in this Since the year end, Experians and continued to invest in new growing market.
board has been strengthened by opportunities for growth, which the appointment of Chris Callero leaves us well placed as conditions Outside of financial services, we as an executive director.
In the meantime, we continued to diversify by taking our the President and Chief Operating remain committed to our successful core data and analytics products into Officer for Experian and has played strategy of focusing on data and markets such as the public sector, a central role in Experians success, analytics, driving profitable growth healthcare and telecommunications.
particularly in North and Latin and optimising capital efficiency.
America, since joining the Group in 2002.
Sean FitzPatrick stood down as a non-executive director in December 2008 and we are very John Peace grateful for the valuable contribution Chairman he made to our business.
