OPeRATING ANd FINANCIAL RevIeW MARTIN GILBeRT Chairmans statement I am delighted to report another strong performance from the Group, delivering continued growth and solid results despite the more challenging economic backdrop.
While the current macro-economic conditions present short term Across our business trading has been strong.
Adjusted basic challenges they also highlight the strength and resilience of our earnings per share increased by 18.8% to 48.6p 2008: 40.9p.
As a result of our strategy to build a balanced portfolio The Board is recommending a final dividend, subject to approval of operations we now have some 50% of Group revenues secured by shareholders, of 12.7p making a full year payment of 18.75p, an under medium term contracts providing a visible revenue stream increase of 10%.
It will be paid on 21 August 2009 to shareholders and insulation against a fast changing economic environment.
Our on the register on 17 July 2009.
In line with the Boards previously strategy to deliver long term sustainable growth in the UK and North stated dividend commitment, this is now the fifth consecutive year America has ensured that the Group is not solely dependent on one that we have increased dividends by 10%, representing an increase market or operating division.
of 8.2m in the year on a like for like basis and is supported by strong performance in the year from the Groups resilient and stable We have a clear strategy to provide safe, high quality and reliable portfolio of operations.
services and deliver profitable growth in our core markets.
Our twin objectives of safety and customer service are at the heart of our We have further strengthened the Board with the announcement business and underpin everything we do.
There is no higher priority of four new appointments.
In January 2009 Nicola Shaw was than the safety and security of our passengers and our staff and appointed to the Board as Director responsible for Bus in the UK, therefore I am pleased that we continue to find ways to engage with Ireland and Germany.
Having joined the Group in 2005 she was our employees in this key area and make further strides with our previously Managing Director UK Bus and has led the focus on industry-leading initiatives and programmes.
service quality and operational performance that underpins the strong growth achieved by the division.
Across the Group we have taken action to reduce our cost base, giving us the ability to respond quickly and dynamically to changing Tim OToole and Colin Hood joined the Board as Independent market conditions and ensuring that the business remains robust Non-Executive Directors in May 2009.
They both bring significant in this more challenging economic environment.
I am pleased to experience together with a strong track record of achievement in report that we have made excellent progress in implementing our their respective industries and I am confident they will make a refinancing strategy during the year.
In April 2009 we announced the significant contribution to the Group.
successful launch of a 350m 12 year bond, which was more than 50% oversubscribed, demonstrating the strength of the Group and the continued support from fixed income investors.
The bond launch represented further progression of our strategy to reduce reliance on bank debt and extend our average debt maturity profile.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 CHAIRMANS STATeMeNT CONTINUed David Dunn and Jim Forbes will retire as Independent Non-Executive The Groups continued success is achieved only by the hard work Directors at the Annual General Meeting in July, having joined the and dedication of our employees.
On behalf of the Board I would Board in December 1999 and April 2000 respectively.
On behalf of like to thank all of our staff across the Group for their continued the Board I would like to thank David and Jim for their contribution as commitment to providing safe, high quality and reliable services.
Non-Executive Directors during which time the Group has benefited from their independent judgement, experience and support.
Looking ahead the Group continues to benefit from a diverse revenue stream that is well balanced between contract-backed Jeff Carr will join the Board as Finance Director.
Jeff joins from and passenger revenues.
The strength of our order book in North easyJet plc where he has been Group Finance Director since America demonstrates the success of our strategy to expand our 2005.
He is expected to join the Group in the next few months.
presence in this large, resilient, contract-backed transportation His financial leadership, extensive background in consumer facing market.
In those areas of our business that are less immune to companies and international experience, particularly in North economic downturn we have taken swift and decisive action to America, will be of great benefit to the Group and its continued reduce costs and to closely match supply to demand to ensure successful development.
that we remain in a strong position to continue to deliver profitable growth.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Nick Chevis for his contribution as Acting Finance Director during which time he has While no business can be immune from this recessionary ensured the continuation of strong financial control and leadership environment, the Board is confident in the underlying strength and the Group has successfully implemented its refinancing strategy of the business and that the Group is well positioned to withstand against a challenging economic backdrop.
the current economic headwinds and to deliver long term, sustainable growth.
David Leeder stepped down from the Board in September 2008 to pursue alternative business interests.
I would like to thank David for his contribution to the Group over seven years, initially as Managing Director UK Bus and latterly as International Development Director.
Dean Finch, Chief Operating Officer, left the Group at the beginning of May 2009 to take up the role of Chief Executive of Tube Lines Limited.
I would like to thank Dean for his unique contribution to the Martin Gilbert development of the Group over the past 10 years and wish him Chairman every success in his new role.
Operating profit referred to throughout this document refers to operating profit before amortisation charges, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring items and profit on disposal of properties.
EBITDA is adjusted operating profit plus depreciation.
6 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2009
