Communicating our years performance Chairman and Group Chief Executives Report 2009 was a year of resilience and achievement.
We have developed a strong base for future growth.
Few businesses have the solidity, diversity and asset base of Forth Ports.
This allows us to plan for growth in many different areas over turbulent economic cycles.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3 Overview Conditional Proposal amounted to 36.3m 2008 a loss of 30.7m after net exceptional gains of Forth Ports the Group achieved a As previously announced, the Board 3.1m arising from the acquisition of OTL, robust financial result in a year in which received two conditional proposals from the increase decrease in the valuation of there was a severe economic recession, a consortium comprising AEIF General the investment properties and the 12.3m a continued lack of available credit and Partner Limited, Peel Ports Holdings impairment of the Nordic goodwill.
Profit a worldwide decrease in container trade Limited and RREEF Limited.
The first after tax amounted to 26.4m compared volumes of about 20%.
proposal, which was received on 28th with a loss of 51.2m in 2008.
January 2010, was at 1,285p per share During the year, the Group built upon in cash and the second, received on 11th Basic earnings per share amounted to the strength, diversity and security of its February 2010, was 4.3% higher at 1,340p 58.2p 2008 loss of 107.8p.
Underlying business, asset and knowledge base, to per share.
The Board considered both of earnings per share were 56.2p compared prepare for and trade through a difficult these proposals carefully and, having with 57.6p in 2008 as restated.
We have been discussed them with its financial advisers, successful in reducing costs, increasing Commerzbank AG London Branch, and its Net debt at the end of the year amounted corporate broking advisers, Investec Bank productivity and skills and working to 184.2m excluding OTL compared closely with our customers.
plc, the Board is of the unanimous view with 208m at the end of 2008.
Total that these proposals fall far short of the committed facilities at the end of 2009 The ports business produced a resilient value of Forth Ports.
Net debt, including the debt performance in a difficult economic to meet the consortium in their capacity of OTL most of which is non-recourse to environment.
In addition, we made as shareholders, following publication the Company, amounted to 251.1m.
tangible progress in major projects in of these results.
At the end of the Dividend year we acquired the remaining 50% of Ocean Terminal Limited OTL from our The Directors propose a final dividend 154.8m joint shareholder, Bank of Scotland.
After of 19.1p per share giving a total dividend the reduction in the value of our property for the year of 28.6p 2008 28.6p.
Overall port development assets in 2008, our Valuers, If approved by the shareholders at the revenue 2009 Debenham Tie Leung DTZ have Annual General Meeting on 30th April valued these assets at 74m as at 31st 2010, the final dividend will be paid December 2009 2008 60m.
on 7th May 2010 to all shareholders on the register as at 16th April 2010.
Financial Net debt was reduced in the year from 208m to 184.2m excluding OTL Group revenue amounted to 173.9m Ports giving substantial headroom based on compared with 185.9m in 2008.
The our existing agreed banking facilities.
major part of this reduction in revenue The ports business produced a robust related to Nordic Recycling Limited performance in a difficult economic 4 We are therefore in a strong position, NRL which was down by over 7m.
The underlying EBITDA 1 having a secure resilient core ports The underlying ports operating profit amounted to 54.2m compared with 3 business, together with an asset and decreased by 8% to 40.5m 2008 57.4m in 2008 and underlying ports 2,3 business base which has good potential 44m.
The underlying financial result operating profit reduced by 8% in 2009 2,3 to create strong growth in shareholder in recycling amounted to 1.3m 2008 to 40.5m 2008 44m.
The decrease value as markets and economies recover.
The reported profit before tax in profits in the Groups container 1 Underlying figures exclude the impact of revaluation of investment properties, impairment of goodwill, acquisition of Ocean Terminal Limited and one-off income and costs where appropriate 2 The restated definition of underlying is shown in the Glossary on page 109 3 Restated to reflect an increase in the Business Segments 4 Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation Communicating our years performance Chairman and Group Chief Executives Report continued operations accounted for more than half including the purchased land.
The financial benefits and there is an of this reduction.
The performances of TTGDCs approved non-statutory increased trend towards pure recycling Scottish Ports and Marine and Tilbury masterplan and Thurrock Councils as opposed to landfill.
Commodity were very similar in 2009 compared with emerging Local Development Framework prices have also shown some 2008 on an aggregate basis with the best both support our plan for the site.
We improvement recently but it is too early performing individual asset areas being intend to submit a planning application to determine whether this recovery will the Port of Leith in Scotland and the Grain in 2010 to support this designation.
Terminal at Tilbury, both of which achieved excellent results in 2009.
Nordic In Scotland, there was a strong Property Forest Terminals Limited NFT also performance at Leith where tonnages Our property division continued to make performed well and Tilbury saw another increased in coal and steel pipes giving progress in building a platform for good increase in Ro-Ro traffic.
rise to an excellent financial performance recovery in our property assets.
The main whereas Grangemouth was affected by initiatives which progressed were: The overall increase in the annual a downturn in the container business.
valuation of the port investment property We are experiencing a growing interest The acquisition of the remaining was 10.5m.
This increase followed a in port facilities for renewables interest in Ocean Terminal a strategic comprehensive internal review by senior manufacturing, assembly and load-out.
focal point for The Harbour development: members of the property and ports Leith and Dundee have been designated Increased Market Value of our property divisions.
As part of this review, a detailed in the Scottish Governments National development assets from 60m to analysis was undertaken of the rent roll, Renewables Infrastructure in Scotland 74m: which will position us well for strategic plan as two of the leading ports which Progress with City of Edinburgh Council decisions to be taken over the next five to can satisfy demand for such facilities.
CEC on the planning application ten years.
The significant increase in the for The Harbour: and valuation of the assets at Tilbury was Our share of the EBITDA of our associated Progress in developing a case offset by a reduction in the asset values company, Tilbury Container Services with CEC for public financing of in Scotland reflecting the difference in the TCS, decreased from 5.1m to 2.9m infrastructure for the Waterfront.
relative markets and a worsening of the as a result of volume and storage revenue yields applied to the properties at the end decreases.
TCS has, however, won new In December 2009, we concluded an of 2009 compared with 2008. business, positioning it to achieve a agreement with Bank of Scotland to stronger performance in 2010. purchase the remaining 50% of the share We continue to progress a number of capital of OTL for a consideration of 2m.
The London Recycling The net assets of OTL amounted to Organising Committee of the Olympic As noted during 2009, the results from 9.3m.
As part of the acquisition, the Games and Paralympic Games the Nordic Group were disappointing existing loan facilities were extended by LOCOG has agreed Heads of Terms with a fall in operating profit due entirely a further two years to 2015.
63m of the for warehousing space at the Port of to lower turnover in the recycling 68m OTL facility is non-recourse to Forth Tilbury covering the period leading up to business caused by lower commodity Ports.
OTL and its subsidiaries became the Games and the Games itself.
The Port prices and volume throughputs.
The wholly owned members of the Group will be supporting UPS, the Tier 2 Official underlying operating profit amounted on 17th December 2009.
The waste allow for the storage and distribution management business improved its This enables us to integrate OTL of a range of goods destined for the performance by 55% but this was more more easily into the overall Harbour Games and those supporting services than offset by reductions in the main development and should enable the and should help to encourage further recycling business.
A new senior Group to benefit from income generation volume increases through the Port for management team has been appointed and an uplift in property values going the Olympics site.
to drive the business forward.
The Market Value of the Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre recovered Tilbury Green Power Limited obtained Following the disappointing results from marginally in the second half of 2009 planning approval for a 60MW biomass NRL and based on a prudent outlook on to reach a Market Value of 85m at 31st plant to be built within the port and Heads recovery for 2010, the goodwill arising December 2009 compared with 81.75m of Terms have been concluded for the from the acquisition of the Nordic Group at 30th June 2009 and 90m at 31st handling of materials for this proposed was reviewed for impairment: a charge December 2008. new facility.
of 12.3m has been recognised in the 2009 accounts to reflect the slowdown After the reduction in the value of our Good progress has been made in our in volumes and hence profitability of property development assets in 2008, our discussions with Thurrock Thames this business.
Valuers, DTZ, have valued these assets at Gateway Development Corporation 74m as at 31st December 2009 2008 TTGDC and Thurrock Council over 2009 was a difficult year but we are 60m.
There has been no change to the the designation of the 65 acres of land confident that the new management team assumption used by DTZ in 2008 that at outside the port which we purchased in will make good progress in 2010.
The least 80% of the development land bank 2008.
TTGDC published a master plan in initiatives on the collection and sourcing has no immediate development value.
November 2009 making Tilbury a main of waste fibre are already showing priority for regeneration and expansion Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5 The discussion with CEC on the Section As announced last year, Christopher the pilot scheme for public financing of 75 for the Leith Docks Outline Planning Collins retired as our Chairman at the infrastructure for the Waterfront.
This Application continued and we are end of 2009.
We are extremely grateful will all reinforce our current planning hopeful for a conclusion on this matter to him for his guidance and support over application for The Harbour and, with during 2010.
Discussions are also the years.
Ocean Terminal at the heart of this site, ongoing on The Harbour where we hope it is well positioned for recovery.
As to see the planning application before We are delighted to welcome Mariemarkets improve and these initiatives the Planning Committee by the end Louise Clayton as a Non-Executive develop, we have the prospect of of the second quarter.
Director and Chair of the Audit Committee attracting a development partner and with effect from 1st January 2010. crystallising value with an attractive site, The Tax Incremental Financing business Marie-Louise was formerly Group Finance good infrastructure and a thriving and case has been prepared, covering an Director of Venture Production plc.
Approval of this package by CEC was given in All of these growth initiatives are built Outlook February for presentation to the Scottish on a solid trading and financial base.
The ports business is well placed to Government via the Scottish Futures Trust.
respond to increases in economic activity.
Trading in January and February 2010 The Groups container operations will was well ahead of the equivalent period Renewable Energy benefit from an increase in volumes and last year.
The Board believes that Forth Good progress has been made in our storage of containers.
The contracts at Ports broad spread of business, secure strategic joint venture with Scottish Tilbury will have a beneficial effect on revenue streams, substantial asset base and Southern Energy plc SSE.
At the financial performance and there is and growth initiatives mean that it is well end of 2009, Forth Energy submitted a potential remaining for volumes to placed to withstand economic uncertainty scoping study to the Scottish Government increase as activity on the Olympic site and deliver growth in shareholder value.
in support of its planning applications gathers momentum.
In Scotland, the for biomass facilities in four of the scale of opportunity for the Group in Groups ports.
It is expected that this servicing the requirements of the offshore application will be concluded by the end renewables market will be significant over of 2010.
We have progressed various a ten year period from about 2012.
The studies necessary to support planning potential tonnages and number of ship applications for the erection of wind movements associated with this activity turbines at our Scottish Ports.
is the largest business opportunity for our Scottish Ports since North Sea oil We have concluded Heads of Agreement and gas.
Our biomass initiatives have the with SSE to lease them the sites for the potential to double our throughputs of four wind turbines at Tilbury, to build and dry cargo in the Scottish Ports and create operate this facility and sell the electricity value for shareholders through the generated to the Port of Tilbury under a consenting process itself.
In recycling, long-term supply contract.
sales and marketing initiatives to attract new sources of waste fibre are already showing signs of success and will assist Board us in improving volumes and sales.
Last year was a difficult year and we are extremely grateful to all who work for In property, we expect to see progress Forth Ports for their efforts and at Ocean Terminal, in facilitating the contributions in 2009.
Tram connection to the Waterfront and David Richardson Charles Hammond Chairman Group Chief Executive 22nd March 2010
