LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholders, It is a privilege to report that Fresnillo plc has delivered another year of strong performance.
As we stated at the time of the Groups initial public offering in 2008, we are committed to maintaining our position as the worlds largest primary silver producer, with the goal of producing 65 million ounces of silver and 400,000 ounces of gold per year by 2018.
Results in 2009 indicate we are rmly on track, with strong operational performance, quality and sustainable growth across our operations.
The Group more than delivered on its commitments during the past year.
Silver production reached record levels, planned cost reduction and efciency projects were completed, and progress at exploration and development sites was on target, with the start-up of Soledad-Dipolos ahead of schedule and within budget.
Indicators of future performance remained strong, with double-digit mine life and a significant increase in total ore resources.
"These results further underscore the Groups strong competitive advantages: adWVa aZVYZgh] e c i]Z eg bVgn egdYjXi dc d[ h akZg DeZgVi dcVa ZmXZaaZcXZ VcY adl""Xdhi egdYjXi dc 6 gdWjhi gZhdjgXZ WVhZ VcY ZmXZei dcVa gdli] edgi[da d 6 aVg Z aVcY edh i dc c BZm Xd!"
l] X] egdk YZh Vc ViigVXi kZ Zck gdcment for mining activities BVcV ZbZcih egdkZc ZmZXji dc XVeVW a i Zh Higdc WVaVcXZ h]ZZi 6c ZcYjg c Xdbb ibZci id XdgedgViZ gZhedch W a in OUR STRATEGY LEADERSHIP QUALITY SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Continuing the sustainable development of the group Maximising the potential of existing operations Delivering growth through development projects Extending the growth pipeline Maintaining strict financial discipline 2 FRESNILLO PLC 2009 ANNUAL REPORT We enter 2010 well-positioned to deliver continued growth.
The rise in Fresnillo plcs share price accompanied a rally in prewith our expectations of financial performance.
Nonetheless, we believe that our ranking as cus remains on consolidating mining districts, expanding the top performer in 2009 among gold and silver miners in the the growth platform and ensuring that our reserve and FTSE350 Index, and number three among all mining comparesource base are of the highest quality.
To that end, the nies in that Index, are evidence of the markets recognition of Group will pursue acquisition opportunities that may arise our operational performance and the quality of our asset base.
if they are value accretive to our shareholders and comply with our strategic and financial return criteria.
See StratThe Company has the fundamental ingredients for longegy and KPIs on pages 10 to 15 term sustainable growth.
The Board utilises a number of indicators, as set out in this report, to monitor the impleI would like to extend my appreciation to my fellow Board mentation of the Groups value-creation strategy and to members for their dedication and invaluable advice.
This measure its effectiveness in delivering against objectives.
diverse group of professionals combine a wealth of experience and perspectives to enhance the strategy and goverWe enter 2010 well-positioned to deliver continued finance of the organisation.
I would also like to commend growth.
As of today, gold and silver prices are signicantly the Groups executives and employees for their impressive higher than they were one year ago, buoyed by momenexecution against objectives this year, demonstrating the tum in investment demand and signs of a global economic strength of their commitment and teamwork.
The start up of Soledad-Dipolos as an operating mine will boost attributable gold production by an expected 20%.
Major construction on the first stage of the Alberto Baillres Saucito mine will near completion during the coming year, NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN and ore from the project is already being processed in the Fresnillo mill and contributing to silver production.
We have authorised a 58% increase in the 2010 exploration budget to US$77.6 million, which is commensurate 58% increase in the 2010 exploration budget 07 08 09 EXPLORATION EXPENSES to US$77.6 million US$ million SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Exploration is a cornerstone of our growth strategy 3 52.0 53.5 49.1 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN LEADERSHIP.
