Dekorra Bull Stud Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report on another year In the strategically important markets of resilient results with double digit for the future of the Far East and Latin earnings growth achieved from robust America, sales and profits both increased underlying results.
At a time of recession in underlying terms and at reported in agriculture, our strategy has delivered exchange rates.
strong profit growth in developing After higher interest costs, following a markets to offset the market related refinancing in February, adjusted profit downturn in the developed world.
before tax was 15% higher at 32.0m We believe that this resilient performance 2008: 27.9m.
Adjusted earnings per reconfirms the strength of Genus share were 14% higher at 36.1p 2008: multi-species business strategy and the 31.8p.
Genus has demonstrated a resilient benefits of its international brand and Capital investment, mainly on the global underlying business performance without distribution network.
expansion programme that commenced jeopardising the Companys potential Results last year, absorbed 15m and led to a for strong growth beyond the current small cash outflow for the year of 4m.
On revenues up 14% from 247.1m to 280.4m, adjusted operating profit The Groups financial position remains John Hawkins Chairman increased by 18% to 38.1m 2008: strong, with net debt at the end of the 32.3m.
Because of Genus international year of 88m 2008: 78m, leaving spread of businesses, the results have considerable headroom within the benefited from exchange rate volatility, approximately 150m of banking facilities.
particularly the weakness Dividend of sterling.
Reflecting continuing confidence in the At constant exchange rates, adjusted Companys long-term strategy for growth, operating profit was in line with last year.
the Board is again recommending a 10% An improvement in trading performance increase in the dividend to 11.0 pence was held back by an 1.3m increase in per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholder research and product development costs, approval at Genus annual general largely because of feed costs.
meeting to be held on 12 November Poor market conditions prevailed 2009, this dividend will be paid on 8 throughout the developed world, January 2010 to shareholders on the particularly in the North American dairy register at the close of business on 11 sector.
However, the company continued December 2009.
The dividend is covered to outperform its competitors and 3.3 times by adjusted earnings.
increased its market share in a number of important markets.
For instance, market share grew by 2% in the large US porcine sector, from 50% to 52%.
4 I Genus Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Porcine Nucleus Herd in South Dakota Strategic Development Debt Refinancing He is currently a non-executive director at Croda Plc and Scapa Plc.
During the year, the Company made To ensure that the Company could pursue excellent progress in achieving its strategy its growth strategy in the developing Employees to extend international capacity as well markets at a time when finance may have Genus continued success is a result of as opening or expanding local facilities in been in short supply, the Board took the our talented employees across the Group.
targeted developing markets, particularly opportunity in February 2009 to extend On behalf of the Board, I would like to China and Russia.
The new three year thank all of our employees for all their hard banking facilities of approximately 150m The main production unit for the new work and enthusiasm during the year.
will enable the strategy to be pursued bovine stud in Wisconsin was completed while allowing sufficient headroom to Outlook and ground has been broken for the make opportunistic small acquisitions to This year, Genus has demonstrated a housing barns for young animals.
enhance growth in developed markets.
These new facilities will enable progeny resilient underlying business performance testing of 80 more bulls per year and will Board without jeopardising the Companys potential for strong growth beyond the provide additional production capacity to As part of the Boards succession meet the sales growth for the next current recession.
planning, Chief Executive Richard Woods five years.
We believe that the long-term contract was extended in October 2008 The development of the companys new on a rolling 12 month basis until his opportunities in the markets in which porcine nucleus herd facility in South expected retirement date.
The Board Genus operates remain undiminished.
Commentators continue to raise Dakota at a cost of $24m is almost believes that this contract extension awareness of food shortages as complete and animals are already in place.
will ensure operational stability for the The new facility will provide the additional Companys challenge of delivering burgeoning world population drives capacity necessary to support both sales planned growth, particularly in the increased demand with an emphasis on better yields.
growth and the production of custom lines emerging markets, while providing for selected customers.
flexibility in other elements of its Although we expect difficult market succession plan.
In this latter respect, conditions for Genus customers will In China, commercial arrangements have the Board has been strengthened by two been completed with Mengniu.
This continue during the remainder of 2009, we recent appointments.
provides Genus with a route to market believe that the recovery from recession in agriculture will be sharp as livestock for imported and locally produced dairy John Worby, previously a non-executive semen.
In porcines, local capacity for director and Chairman of the Audit markets recover from the economic breeding animals is being doubled.
Committee, was appointed Group downturn and feed costs ease.
We Finance Director on 26 February 2009 to believe this recovery is likely to commence In Russia, an option has been taken on during the second half of the 2009 2010 replace Martin Boden.
real estate and buildings to be converted financial year.
into a local stud as soon as operational On 7 May 2009, Mike Buzzacott joined In that recovery, the Board believes that licenses have been granted by the Board as a non-executive director and the government.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mike Genus will be better placed than its brings a wealth of international business competitors to achieve a return to strong experience, gained from 34 years at BP.
