com Chairmans Statement 03 We are confident that our leading market positions, coupled with a strong product, technology and customer base, will enable us to take full advantage of opportunities that arise as markets recover.
Roy Brown Chairman This time last year we were experiencing an balance sheet and having achieved excellent Independent Director, both with effect from unprecedented decline in global automotive cash generation during the year, we have 6 May 2010.
I would like to take this production, the worlds major economies been able to repay our revolving credit opportunity to thank both Sir Peter and Sir were in the middle of the most severe global facilities and buy back 124 million of our Christopher for the valuable contributions they recession for more than 60 years and we 2012 bond, thereby reducing interest costs have made during their time on the Board.
continued to face significant economic going forward.
uncertainty and a lack of liquidity in financial 250 Years of GKN markets.
Despite this backdrop, we were Dividend 2009 was also a year of celebration.
also looking forward to celebrating our 250th We are mindful that dividends are an September marked the 250th anniversary anniversary.
extremely important part of shareholder of the Groups founding in Dowlais, South return.
Whilst the Board has decided not to Wales, in 1759 and employees around the Performance pay a dividend for 2009, it is our intention world joined together to celebrate GKNs GKN reacted swiftly to mitigate the impact of to resume payments, commencing with an heritage and achievements of the past declining end markets with significant cost interim dividend in 2010, commensurate with 250 years.
We are immensely proud of this cutting from the fourth quarter of 2008.
That earnings and taking into account the outlook milestone.
decisive action continued throughout 2009 for our end markets at that time.
and, as the year progressed, the benefits Looking to the future became increasingly apparent.
In the medium term, it is the intention to During the final quarter of 2009, the Board resume a progressive dividend policy based considered the outturn of a comprehensive Our Automotive and Powder Metallurgy on an underlying earnings cover ratio of strategic review by the executive team which businesses returned to profitability in the around 2.5 times.
is summarised on pages 6 and 7 of this second half of 2009.
Enhancing shareholder value remains excellent year, supported by the successful Board composition paramount in the development and execution integration of Filton.
In OffHighway, however, Our Board continues to evolve and in of our strategy.
We are confident that our the decline in sales volumes accelerated as September we were delighted to welcome leading market positions, coupled with a the year progressed, fuelled by the prevailing Michael Turner as a new non-executive strong product, technology and customer economic conditions and extensive fideDirector.
With over 40 years service at BAE base, will enable us to take full advantage of stocking actions within the supply chain.
Systems, Michael brings to the Board extensive opportunities that arise as markets recover.
experience of the aerospace industry.
Overall, the Group moved from reporting Finally, I would like to thank each and every a management loss before tax in the first At this years Annual General Meeting both GKN employee for the commitment they quarter to a management profit before tax Sir Peter Williams and Sir Christopher Meyer have shown during 2009 and to express my in the second and remaining quarters of the will retire from the Board having served for gratitude to you, our shareholders, for your year.
Given the market backdrop, this was an nine years and over six years respectively continued support.
Sir Peter has also been Chairman of the Remuneration Financing Committee since January 2006 and Senior The rights issue launched in June was Independent Director since January 2008. strongly supported by shareholders, with Richard Parry-Jones will take over from Sir over 95% acceptances, and raised 423 Peter as Remuneration Committee Chairman million before expenses.
With a strong and Michael Turner will succeed him as Senior 17139 09 03 2010 Proof 25
