Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that, in very demanding trading conditions, we have once more delivered resilient results.
This year was tougher than last, yet we managed to grow our revenue by 1.3% to 954.6m.
Faced with significant margin pressures, we generated operating profit of 216.2m, which was 6.7% below last year.
Our profit before tax was 118.5m, down 15.0% on last year, but ahead of the 115.0m profit forecast at the time of the rights issue.
We delivered earnings per share, before exceptional items, of 66.5p, 8.4% below last year.
The final dividend will People be paid on 14 September 2009 to those For our many long-standing employees and shareholders on the register at the close licensees, this year will have been as tough of business on 14 August 2009. as any of us can remember.
However, they, and the many talented and hard-working Dividend policy people who have joined the company in Looking ahead, the board expects to pursue a recent years, should be proud of what has dividend policy which targets a dividend cover been achieved.
The pressures have been of around two times underlying earnings.
intense at times, but we continue to see At this level, we believe we can maintain positive thinking, tenacity and hard work a balance between the cash requirement throughout the business.
of the business to invest capital in our assets Rights issue and pay down borrowings, and the need Our strong reputation and continuing success On 23 April we announced a three-for-five to ensure that shareholders will benefit from are entirely dependent on everyones efforts rights issue to raise net proceeds of 207.5m, our strong cash ow and successful growth.
and I would like to express my sincere thanks which will allow us to repurchase some of to you all for your personal contribution.
our securitised debt at signicantly below Acquisitions and disposals Looking ahead, conditions are likely to remain par value and to make selective acquisitions We did not make any acquisitions during challenging, but I am confident that the team of freehold retail pubs.
The rights issue was the financial year, but have announced an at Greene King will continue to drive the completed successfully on 29 May 2009 acquisition since the year end, having reached business forward.
when dealing in the new shares began.
an agreement to purchase 11 high-quality, freehold managed pubs from Punch Taverns Dividend for a total consideration of 30.4m.
The deal Although earnings were lower than last year, was completed on 1 July 2009. our ability to convert profit into cash and to Tim Bridge manage our balance sheet tightly has allowed Despite a difficult property market in the Chairman the board to recommend a final dividend last 12 months, we have improved the 1 July 2009 payment of 15.1p per share, being the average quality of our estate by successfully equivalent of 18.7p per share before adjusting disposing of 128 of our non-core assets As throughout, profit figures are shown before exceptional items.
This, and the adjusted for 44.2m, realising a net profit of 3.7m As throughout, 2007 08 rebased to 52 weeks total dividend of 22.4p per share, is marginally against book value.
GREENE KING PLC 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09
