Directors Report and Business Review for the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2010 The directors have pleasure in presenting their annual report and the audited accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2010.
The comparative period is the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008.
The directors report and business review is set out on pages 8 to 35.
Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report a year of significant progress, in which we have achieved our key objectives despite the pressures of a harsh recession.
We have delivered a record underlying operating profit while completing a major programme of reorganisation to create the right structure for future growth.
Greggs enters the expansion phase of our strategy with strong finances and a clear vision for the future.
Recipe for success Results Total Group sales for the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2010 increased by 4.8 per cent to 658 million 2008: 628 million, including a 1.5 per cent contribution from the 53rd week.
Likeforlike sales increased by 0.8 per cent.
Operating profit grew by 9.3 per cent to 48.4 million 2008: 44.3 million excluding exceptional items.
Operating margin on this basis was 7.4 per cent 2008: 7.1 per cent.
Net finance income was 0.3 million 2008: 0.9 million, reflecting low market interest rates.
Pretax profit was 48.8 million, an increase of 8.0 per cent on the 2008 profit of 45.2 million excluding a net exceptional credit of 4.3 million relating to oneoff property gains, restructuring costs and an exceptional pension credit.
Including the net exceptional credit last year, pretax profit in 2008 was 49.5 million.
The Group tax charge for the year was 29.5 per cent 2008: 31.1 per cent, reflecting a reduction in the corporation tax rate and the favourable settlement of prior year claims.
Diluted earnings per share were 34.0 pence 2008: 30.6 pence excluding the net exceptional credit, an increase of 11.1 per cent.
Including the net exceptional credit last year, diluted earnings per share in 2008 were 33.5 pence.
1 British Bakery Retailer in the British Bakers top 50 companies We rebranded almost two thirds of our Bakers Dividend The Board recommends an increased final Oven shops to create a single Greggs brand throughout the UK and withdrew from our small, dividend of 11.4 pence per share 2008: 10.0 pence.
Together with the interim dividend of 5.2 lossmaking business in Belgium.
This would have constituted a very full year pence 2008: 4.9 pence paid in October 2009, this makes a total for the year of 16.6 pence 2008: 14.9 of activity under any conditions: it has been a remarkable accomplishment whilst also dealing pence, an increase of 11.4 per cent.
This is covered 2.0 times by diluted earnings per share.
with the effects of the recession and keeping the performance of the business on track.
Our Chief Subject to the approval of the Annual General Meeting the final dividend will be paid on 21 May Executive, Kennedy McMeikan, comments on the business performance and our strategy in more 2010 to shareholders on the register on 23 April 2010. detail in his report.
This is the 25th consecutive year of dividend growth since Greggs floated on the stock market The Board Iain Ferguson CBE 54 joined the Board as in 1984: a record that few companies can match.
The Board remains committed to pursuing a an additional nonexecutive director on 31 March 2009.
Iain was Chief Executive of Tate & Lyle PLC progressive dividend policy that pays due regard to the growth of earnings per share over the medium from 2003 2009.
He is a nonexecutive director of Balfour Beatty and The Davis Service Group, term, the cash generative nature of our growing business and our continuing determination to deliver a member of the  UK Advisory Board, currently Honorary VicePresident value to our shareholders.
of the British Nutrition Foundation and a member of Defras Council of Food Policy Advisers.
His Business highlights Key achievements during a year of major change extensive knowledge and experience of the food industry, particularly in manufacturing, have made included the completion of our programme to make the business more centrally driven, reorganising him a most valuable addition to our Board.
from 11 bakery divisions to seven retail regions and strengthening our central capabilities in a number of In 2009 Sir Michael Darrington retired from the Board at the Annual General Meeting after 26 key areas, including the creation of a new Trading function.
Mike was also a tremendous support to Kennedy McMeikan when We harmonised our product ranges across the country: removed all artificial colours and HVOs he joined as Chief Executive, ensuring a smooth and effective handover, and I would like to wish him a hydrogenated vegetable oils and trans fats from our own products, and provided consumers with long and very happy retirement.
nutritional information on our core ranges.
10 Kennedy McMeikan, Sir Michael Darrington and Ian Gregg receiving the Honorary Freedom of the City of Newcastle upon Tyne from the Lord Mayor Cllr Mike Cookson.
In this context we Greggs in the community In February 2010, Greggs plc was awarded have considered it sensible to plan for likeforlike sales growth to be marginally positive this year the Honorary Freedom of the City of Newcastle upon Tyne in recognition of our contribution to the and to manage our costs so that they remain consistent with this challenging trading environment.
North East economy and our charitable work in local communities over the last 20 years.
We are The current outlook for ingredient costs is reasonably benign and we expect further cost most grateful to the City Council for bestowing this rare honour, which particularly reflects the benefits from the simplification of the business completed during 2009.
Total sales in the ten weeks consistent determination of Ian Gregg and Sir Michael Darrington to build a business with sound to 13 March 2010 have increased by 2.8 per cent and likeforlike sales by 0.8 per cent.
values and a real commitment to supporting the communities in which we operate.
I am delighted Last years major changes have given us the right platform to accelerate the rate of both new shop that our Chief Executive, Kennedy McMeikan, and indeed the whole Board, show a genuine passion openings and refurbishments in the current year, supported by our recently announced investment to continue this tradition.
plans to increase the efficiency and capacity of our bakeries.
We have also begun a major new People Our people, and the pride and pleasure they marketing campaign designed to increase consumer awareness of Greggs bakery heritage and of our clearly take in their work, are a key point of difference for Greggs.
My colleagues and I have huge core proposition as The home of fresh baking.
Throughout the business, we remain focused on admiration for the way in which they have continued to provide cheerful and effective service to our raising our standards ever higher, whether in quality, efficiency or customer service.
customers while coping with the pressures of the general economic downturn and the implementation We look forward to bringing the unique Greggs combination of freshness, quality, taste and value of significant changes across our business.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank to many more consumers as our expansion programme gains pace, and believe that we are well every one of them for their contribution to another successful year.
placed to achieve a year of further progress in 2010.
Prospects Derek Netherton Chairman The forthcoming election, and concerns about job security and possible tax rises, only makes for 18 March 2010 an uncertain outlook for consumer spending in the current year.
Greggs reputation for outstanding value and great quality will remain an important asset 11
