DIRECTORS REPORT Chairmans statement Thirty years of dividend growth of 5% or more per annum Introduction This financial year marks an historic milestone for Halma.
Subject to shareholders approving the final recommended dividend of 4.78p per share, an increase of 5% for the year, this will be the thirtieth consecutive year of dividend increases of 5% p. a. or more, which we believe is a record for our sector.
I thought it might be useful to reect on some of the important principles which have contributed to that performance over the three decades.
Firstly, we invest in companies with robust market drivers, making products which target nondiscretionary spend where it is difficult for competitors to get into the market and where value far exceeds costs thereby helping to drive strong margins.
Secondly, our management philosophy is to devolve responsibility for all aspects of performance to the individual companies themselves.
This keeps them close to their markets, understanding customer needs and driving strong innovation where it counts in the market.
Thirdly, we standardise reporting and risk assessment across all companies.
Fourthly, as a result, we produce good returns on total invested capital this year 13.1% Geoff Unwin and generate cash which we use to finance dividends, and the balance we reinvest in the Chairman businesses themselves or invest in acquiring more companies which meet these business criteria.
Reading this, you might think that all sounds rather obvious why dont more companies do it?
The difference perhaps is that we stick to it, because we believe it works.
Take one example: surely we do not need so many managing directors, finance directors and so on: why not consolidate dramatically and save swathes of cost?
The answer is that we could do and occasionally we will consolidate two or more companies.
However, in the process of consolidation, typically what happens is that everyone becomes internally focused, attention on the market reduces, innovation falters and ground is lost often permanently all for a transient one-off cost saving.
Having said that, we are not frozen in time, we continually question the basics and change where needed.
Some examples of this over the last few years are: Geographic markets We have seen recently the strong emergence of the developing economies.
However, if like many of our companies you had little or no experience of operating there, where would you start?
Our response was to set up hubs in China and more recently India, to help our individual companies enter the market.
In effect, making the water slightly warmer for them.
As a result, for example, we started with three and now have nineteen companies operating in China and last year our sales there increased by 25%.
Innovation The pace of change gets faster by the day and advances in technology are there to be seized.
Within the Group we have strong pockets of deep expertise in many domains and recognise that certain technologies and techniques have applications across the Group in more than just the originating company.
So this year we hosted an innovation event to encourage the crossfertilisation of ideas, which in turn we believe will increase the speed and effectiveness of innovation across the Group.
2009 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ACHIEVEMENTS What we said What weve achieved 1.
Measurement and reporting of our carbon footprint Halmas carbon policy was approved by the Board in 2007 and calls for a 10% reduction in the carbon footprint by 2010.
To date our consumption has reduced by 7%.
Establishment of non-financial KPI in respect of the workplace Halma conducts an annual survey of our employees to assess how well our espoused values are present in our organisation.
This years survey showed continuing good alignments.
Continuing development of our people The Halma Executive Development Programme and the Management Development Programme, aimed at middle-managers, continue whilst further training is taking place at lower levels within subsidiary companies.
Emphasis on business ethics Since 2007, the Group has formally adopted Group-wide policies on human rights and business practices to reinforce the strong ethical culture already prevalent throughout the Group.
Maintenance of the composition and balance of the Board The Board appointed an internal successor for a retiring executive Director bringing a new US perspective and additional expertise of our Health and Analysis sector.
10 Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW People development DIVIDENDS PER SHARE PAID & PROPOSED Our results are a function of the dedication, capability and quality of our people.
Over the last pence few years we have signicantly increased our investment in training, running tailor-made programmes for our key people.
Increasingly, we have been looking to promote from within, % which in turn improves the career prospects for all.
7.93P 5 In summary, the Group has very strong, sound foundations which we continuously seek to improve without eroding them.
It is these values which have driven our performance consistently 2009 7.93 over three decades.
Halma: what we do and our strategy 2008 7.55 Our business is to make products which protect lives and improve the quality of life for people worldwide.
We do this through continuous innovation in market-leading products which meet 2007 7.18 the increasing demands for improvements to health, safety and the environment.
We build 2006 6.83 strong positions in niche markets where the demand is global.
Our businesses are autonomous and highly entrepreneurial.
2005 6.50 Strategically we aim to grow profit and revenue in excess of 5% p. a. organically, to have Return on sales in the region of 18% or above and generate post-tax Return on total invested capital of more than 12%.
As a result we are highly cash generative and reinvest in our businesses through 1 people, product and market development, continue to acquire more companies with like ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE pence characteristics, and strive to give annual dividend growth of 5% or more to our shareholders.
Results % Unsurprisingly, the second half saw a weakening in our order intake the detail is provided in Andrew Williams report and action was taken, where necessary, across the Group to bring 15.30P 10 costs in line with new levels of demand.
Nevertheless, full year revenue from continuing 1 operations increased 15.4% to 455.9m 2008: 395.1m underlying organic revenue growth 2009 15.30 was 10.7% with currency having a net impact of 8.2%, i. e. 2.5% organic growth at constant currency.
profit before tax and amortisation of acquired intangibles on continuing operations 2008 13.86 1 was 79.1m 2008: 72.8m, an increase of 8.7% and organic profit growth was 5.1%, at constant currency a decline of 3.3%.
Statutory profit before tax increased 7.0% to 72.8m.
The Board is 2007 12.42 2 2 recommending a final dividend of 4.78p per share, an increase of 5%.
Our dividend cover has 2006 increased to 1.93 times 2008: 1.83 times.
Return on total invested capital was 13.1% 2008: 14.1%.
11.27 Acquisitions and disposals 2005 9.45 During the year we acquired Fiberguide Industries, which manufactures optical bre cables and assemblies, for an initial cash payment of $14m.
We also purchased the business and assets of Oerlikon Optics USA Inc. s operation located in Golden, Colorado, USA for $6m in cash, a business which designs and manufactures optical coatings and optomechanical assemblies and which will operate as part of the newly created Ocean Thin Films, Inc.
These two new businesses form part of our Photonics sub-sector within the Health and Analysis sector.
There were two very small disposals in the year.
Details are included in the Chief Executives review and Financial review.
Governance Other than Adam Meyers appointment to the Board at the beginning of the year and Keith Roys retirement at the 2008 AGM, there have been no changes at Board level during the year.
People The second half in particular has been testing for all of us for the economic reasons which saturate our news channels daily.
In these uncertain times, people across the Group have reacted to adjust to the circumstances they nd in the markets.
Often this has been difficult and trying.
I give my sincere appreciation and thanks to them all.
Outlook Visibility in most of our markets is still limited.
Different countries, sectors and products are at differing places in the economic cycle.
Therefore, we are encouraging all our management teams to react to their markets as they see t, keeping costs in line with order intake, but not cutting back on vital product investment.
When we see improving demand, our operational gearing should show through strongly.
In the meantime, we will concentrate on delivering the high level of returns and cash generation that have been the cornerstone of our resilience over 30 years.
Geoff Unwin Chairman 1 See Financial highlights 2 Subject to the approval of this years recommended dividend increase at the AGM on 30 July 2009 www.
