O Ove ver rv viie ew w C CH OM AI PA RM NA YNS O ST V A ER TE V M IE E W NT It is with some sadness that we prepare to extensive work in the basin.
Since 2006, we leave Uganda, but this is countered with have drilled six wells on our licences, all of pride that we have left a lasting legacy which have found hydrocarbons.
The two which has benefited people in our wells tested in our licence areas each concession areas and has established a produced at rates in excess of 12,000 bopd.
hydrocarbon future capable of supporting In addition to new field discoveries, we infrastructure and industrial development.
also established many other leads and This will have lasting benefits for the people prospects in our licence areas which of Uganda.
We have established a solid have confirmed the Albert Basin to have base for other companies to build upon and multi-billion barrel resource potential.
we fully expect new entrants into Uganda to continue with the numerous corporate Our operations in Uganda have adhered social responsibility CSR programmes consistently to CSR policies which we are that we have initiated and pursued with now beginning to extend to our other core enthusiastic support from Ugandans area holdings as work commences in these new areas.
We expect to achieve significant individually and from the Ugandan Government.
value accretion for our shareholders in a Michael J. Hibberd work environment that benefits local Chairman As we prepare to dispose of our interests in populations and establishes legacy assets that sustain long-term benefits for the Uganda, which has been a core area of focus for us, it seems appropriate to reflect countries in which we are working.
briefly on the evolution of Heritage.
We I am pleased to report that listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange at the Operations Uganda beginning of 1999 with a market 2009 has been another capitalisation of less than $15 million and In 2009, in Uganda, we continued building momentous year for on successes achieved in 2008.
The Giraffe assets focused in Uganda and Congo.
Through our own initiatives and technical discovery in Block 1, at the beginning of Heritage.
We have 2009, allowed us to exceed comfortably the expertise, combined with excellent strategic crystallised value with the guidance, Heritage has evolved into a required commercial threshold for development.
This enabled us to progress company with a market capitalisation at disposal of our Omani year end of $2.0bn with an extensive methodically with our work with the interests and the proposed Government of Uganda to plan for an early portfolio of core assets focused on Africa, the Middle East and Russia.
phased development, based initially on our disposal of our Ugandan Kingfisher discovery in Block 3A and interests.
We are now Heritage was the pioneering company in the progressing to commercialisation of the Albert Basin.
Entering Uganda in 1997, moving forward into a Heritage was the first company to explore new chapter of core area Kurdistan for and operate Ugandan oil and gas interests in almost 60 years.
Our entry into Heritage commenced drilling the Miran activities.
West-1 well in December 2008, less than the region was exploration-led because we believed, from the geology, that it had the 15 months after being awarded the licence, demonstrating both the Companys potential to be a significant oil basin.
Our first licence covered the original Block 3.
We operational efficiency and our commitment to the region.
Initial testing operations were active on our licence for four years before Energy Africa farmed into our concluded in May 2009.
The Miran Field has been estimated to have oil-in-place of acreage.
In 2004, part of Block 3 was relinquished and Block 3A, which covered 3.4 billion barrels.
Further testing on the Miran West-1 well indicated that it could most of the exploration acreage in the original Block 3, was re-licenced along with produce at between 8,00010,000 bopd.
Block 1 at the northern end of the basin.
Over the last 13 years we have carried out 08 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Drilling operations, Kurdistan We announced in April 2010, that the Miran processes for reviewing Director successful track record.
Development of West-2 appraisal well had intersected appointment and succession planning, our Company could not have been achieved significant hydrocarbon-bearing intervals establishing a Reserves Committee and without the determination, commitment and over approximately 1,800 metres within the establishing a CSR Committee.
dedication of our management team and Cretaceous formations.
The well is now our staff, together with contractors and drilling down to the deeper Jurassic Corporate Social Responsibility suppliers.
The Board thanks them all for and Triassic exploration targets with the We remain committed to adhering to our their continued efforts and professionalism.
potential to contain substantial volumes CSR policies and recognise the importance of additional hydrocarbons.
of engaging with local stakeholders at an early stage.
The framework of our CSR Combined Code of Corporate Governance policy has been refined through our We recognise our responsibility to experiences in Uganda where we have shareholders for the Companys standard worked diligently with stakeholders to allay Michael J. Hibberd of governance and we also recognise the potential concerns arising from our activities Chairman importance of maintaining responsible and to address needs and requirements in corporate governance practices.
I am a way that establishes a respected local pleased to advise our shareholders that reputation and identity for us.
We believe we have made further progress during the that our active, ongoing involvement in year to advance our adherence to the community projects in Uganda and Combined Code on Corporate Governance Kurdistan is fundamental in developing published in 2008 the Combined Code.
and maintaining strong relationships within these regions.
In 2009, General Sir Michael Wilkes was appointed Senior Independent Director to Outlook comply with the Combined Code.
His Kurdistan remains a focus area for Heritage this year.
As we continue with drilling on the chief responsibility is to maintain sufficient contact with major shareholders to help Miran West structure and in the second half MARKET CAPITALISATION of the year plan to start exploration drilling develop a balanced understanding of their aT YEaR EnD, $m issues and concerns.
In this role, General on the Miran East structure, we expect to confirm the enormous potential of the Miran Sir Michael Wilkes is available to shareholders who have concerns Block.
2010 will also bring to the fore a new set of projects and initiatives based on that have not been, or cannot be, resolved 2,025 through discussion with the Chairman, seismic and drilling campaigns in Malta and Pakistan scheduled for the second half of Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer or where such contact the year.
13 The Board believes that Heritage, with its technical and financial strengths, will Other significant developments during 1999 2008 2009 2009 and early 2010 included establishing continue to identify further attractive growth opportunities.
The portfolio of assets within a performance evaluation process for the Board and Board committees and for the Heritage offers shareholders geographical CaSH aT YEaR EnD, 2009 diversification combined with a mix of Chairman, developing a formal framework for remuneration policy across the exploration, development and production.
This, together with a strong financial base, Company, confirming no annual bonuses would be paid to the Non-Executive positions Heritage perfectly to pursue exciting opportunities.
Directors, undertaking an independent review of Executive Directors Our management team has a track record remuneration, developing the Companys $208m processes for reviewing key risks, internal of creating value for shareholders and holds a strong determination to continue that controls and assessments, initiating 09 BUSINESS REVIEW 12 Chief Executives Statement 14 Chief Executives Q&A 16 Strategy 17 Reserves and Resources 18 Operations Overview 20 Kurdistan 22 Malta 23 Pakistan 24 Democratic Republic of Congo 25 Tanzania 26 Mali 27 Russia 28 Uganda 30 Financial Review 34 Principal Risks 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Kingfisher-2 well, Lake Albert, Uganda 10 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 11
