06 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2009 Chairmans statement Hikma has once again delivered an outstanding performance.
We have focused on integrity, high quality sales and cost management across all areas of our diversified business model, achieving record sales of $637 million and 36% growth in net income ethical standards across all of our operating units Branded and believe these are essential to delivering longterm Our businesses in the Middle East and North Africa shareholder value.
MENA region continued to grow ahead of the underlying markets, reinforcing our position as the Dividend leading regional pharmaceutical manufacturer.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.5 cents per share approximately 4.3 pence per Injectables share, which will make a dividend for the full year While revenues in our global Injectables business were of 11.0 cents per share, an increase of 47% on down slightly compared to 2008, we expect that 2008.
The proposed final dividend will be paid on during 2010 this business will return to the growth 27 May 2010 to shareholders on the register on profile it previously enjoyed.
We continue to make 16 April 2010, subject to approval by shareholders good progress in implementing our oncology strategy, at the Annual General Meeting.
and saw Hikmas first oncology products launched in the MENA region during the second half of the year.
Balance sheet developments Our focus on working capital management during the Generics year has delivered excellent results.
Significantly higher Our US Generics business had an excellent year, operating cash flow has materially lowered our net achieving record sales and an impressive return debt compared to 2008, strengthening our balance to profitability as our new US management team sheet and giving us financial flexibility to pursue implemented strategic and operational changes.
The competitive environment remained challenging in the US but reduced competition in certain product Shareholder value lines helped the recovery of this business, enabling From the Companys listing in October 2005 us to maximise our opportunities and increase through the end of 2009, we have delivered a total our market share in key products.
We are delighted with this performance, which exceeds that of the FTSE 250 Quality index and the FTSE Pharmaceuticals index, which Underlying all of our achievements in 2009 was grew by 32.5% and 17.7%, respectively, over the our continued commitment to quality and integrity.
We continue to adhere to the highest quality and Delivering Strong performance 07 Hikmas total shareholder return since IPO Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC FTSE 250 FTSE 350 Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 100 80 60 40 20 10 0 -20 -40 Nov 05 May 06 Nov 06 May 07 Nov 07 May 08 Nov 08 May 09 Nov 09 Source: Factset.
Our US Generics business is on a strong footing and Outlook we are confident that we can maintain the positive Hikma should continue to benefit from the overall momentum we have created in this business.
Overall pharmaceutical market growth in the MENA region, for the Group we expect to deliver Group sales which we expect to remain higher than the global growth in the lowteens in 2010 and expect gross pharmaceutical market.
Our share of the MENA margin to be broadly in line with the improved gross market should also continue to increase as we further margin we achieved in 2009. penetrate into existing markets, expand into new markets and grow our portfolio of ownbrand and Going forward inlicensed products.
There also remains considerable In summary, I am confident of the Companys scope for us to grow our global Injectables business prospects for this year and for the years to come.
following the significant investments we have This confidence is based on the diversity of our made in portfolio development, business model and the strength of each of our sales and marketing and core businesses within it.
