Chairmans statement This is my first report to you as Chairman of HMV Group since taking up my appointment in February 2009.
I thought I would start with a few first impressions.
The Group has the leading position in its markets in both HMV and Waterstones.
The markets for both businesses are undergoing long-term structural change.
Building from its strengths, the Groups Chief Executive Simon Fox and his team set out a comprehensive plan in March 2007 to transform the Group over three years.
This requires changes in many aspects of the businesses.
It was fundamental to my decision to join the Group that there is a senior management team in place with the necessary open-mindedness and intensity to make these plans a reality.
I have been impressed by the passionate commitment and knowledge of staff at all levels of HMV and Waterstones.
They care about what they do and are proud of the organisations for which they work.
It will not be simple to transform the business against the backdrop of rapid changes in digital technology, online channels and competition from the major supermarkets.
In the absence of effective government action we must also face up to competition from the free illegal digital market.
Nonetheless, I believe that shareholders can be reassured that Robert Swannell Chairman the business has a determined team and a clear strategy to enhance shareholder value, building on our clear strengths as the only specialist retailer of scale in our markets.
The Group has had a year of pleasing financial performance, at a time when the conditions for consumer businesses could not be more testing.
In the autumn of last year markets were convulsed by the problems in the banking sector and businesses suffered the greatest shock in living memory as economies across the world headed for recession.
That said, our transformation plans set out two years ago and, in particular, the initiatives to drive cost efficiencies have helped to underpin this years resilience.
A number of the strategies to protect and revitalise our store businesses and to grow in new channels have also made a successful contribution.
HMV Group plc 2 Annual report and accounts 2009 HMV UK & Ireland continues to make good progress in adapting This year there have been several changes to the composition to the structural changes taking place in the entertainment of the Board, including my own appointment.
I was delighted market, and has been the principal driver of this years improved to join the Group as Chairman on 2 February 2009, succeeding profit performance.
HMVs reinvigorated market positioning is Lesley Knox.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Lesley clear not only to customers of the brand today, but is pointing for her leadership during an interim period from September 2008 towards a strategy for our engagement with them over the after Carl Symon stepped down.
As our new Senior Independent longer term.
The step we have made this year to invest in live Director the Board continues to benefit from Lesleys experience.
music venues and ticketing is the first beyond the current plan, The Board would also like to thank Carl for his considerable and shareholders can expect further new initiatives to follow.
contribution in his term as Chairman over the years from 2006, The HMV International division had a more difficult year, during which Simon Fox was recruited and the transformation and here our focus is on accelerating the path to transformation.
Waterstones has made a robust defence of its leading high Roy Brown, a Non-Executive and Senior Independent Director street position against the backdrop of a difficult book market since the Groups IPO in May 2002, retired from the Board this year, and is continuing to adapt its business online and in April 2009 and I would also like to place on record the to differentiate itself from the competition.
As it becomes Boards great appreciation for his contribution and enormous fully operational, the new book hub is expected to enhance commitment to the business during this period.
Waterstones routes to market as well as the overall financial I am delighted that Andy Duncan, Chief Executive of Channel 4, performance of the business.
joined our Board in March 2009.
He brings a wealth of relevant I am, therefore, pleased to report that results for the Group experience, particularly in media businesses and their online and for the year ended 25 April 2009 saw a 11.5% increase in profit digital applications and in marketing and communications more before tax and exceptional items to 63.0m, on revenue which generally: this will be a real asset as we address the next part grew by 4.4% to 1,956.7m.
Our adjusted earnings per share of our strategic agenda.
rose by 10.3% to 11.1p and the Board has recommended a final In summary, this year the Groups performance has been dividend of 5.6p per Ordinary Share.
Together with the interim robust in economic conditions that have been volatile and dividend of 1.8p per share, the total dividend for the year is negative.
We have delivered profit growth in this difficult 7.4p, the same as last year.
environment and made good progress on our continuing Shareholders should be assured by the maintenance of a strong transformation plan.
significant steps too have been taken capital structure albeit, like all retailers with a predominantly to develop the business for the long term, whilst tight control leasehold portfolio, we have significant inherent gearing through over our nances has been maintained.
We know there is our store leases.
The Group successfully secured new funding a great deal that remains to be done, and that our markets to September 2011 via a 220m revolving credit facility, which continue to undergo profound change, but we are determined the Board believes is adequate to meet the Groups current to use our inherent strengths as the leading retailer in our cash requirements.
An equity placing of 5% of our share capital markets to create an enduring and growing business.
in January 2009 was strongly supported by institutional investors, and provided all of the funding for our new strategic investments.
At the end of the year, our underlying net borrowings were just 6.5m.
Progress on so many fronts would not, of course, have been possible without the commitment and experience of many people to whom I offer my thanks: the people across our Robert Swannell business world-wide: and Simon Fox and his senior management Chairman team.
This isnt just token appreciation.
As I mentioned earlier, 29 June 2009 I am particularly impressed by the commitment that people at all levels apply to their work in our businesses.
HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 3
