Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Growth strategy Chairmans statement Delivering on our promises 2009 financial & operational highlights Silver production up Gold production up Production Achieved 2009 target of 28 million attributable silver equivalent ounces.
11% 3% 18.8moz 156.8koz Acquisitions & investments In Lake Shore Gold, Gold Resource Corporation, Revenue up Unit cost per tonne down Southwestern Resources and others.
Diversification 24% 11% We now have operations and investments $539.7m $71.2 per tonne in five countries in the Americas: Peru, Argentina, Mexico, Canada and Chile.
Administrative expenses down 26% $51.1m Below: Arcata plant, Peru 04 Growth strategy After implementing a number of measures to deal with Our results were also significantly impacted by $44.7 million challenging market conditions in 2008, we entered 2009 with a of exceptional items, including a one-off gain of $42.3 million firm focus on producing profitable ounces and a clear strategy relating to the Lake Shore Gold WTM transaction, bringing our for growth.
Now, 12 months later, I am proud to say that 2009 post exceptional EPS to $0.31.
Higher realised prices combined has been a year of delivery for Hochschild Mining.
Our strategy with lower costs allowed operating cash flow to more than is supported by three pillars organic, M&A, and exploration double to $200.5 million.
growth and we have delivered in each area with record 4 In October 2009, we successfully raised $260 million through production, continued strategic investments and an expanding an equity placing and bond offering which provided us portfolio of assets.
with increased financial flexibility and funded some of the Operationally, we are as strong as ever with five mines in three investments mentioned above.
Our ability to raise capital during countries, producing a total of 24.6 million ounces of silver and a time when financial markets have been relatively unstable 211.6 thousand ounces of gold.
Our results continue to benefit reflects investor support for our strategy and confidence in our from the plant expansions completed at the end of 2008, which growth prospects.
A continued focus on cost control We continue to enjoy a healthy balance sheet with a year end has resulted in an impressive 11% decrease in unit cost per cash balance of $77.8 million.
This, in conjunction with cash tonne at our underground mines, demonstrating managements generated from our operations will allow us to pursue our ability to adapt quickly to changes in the price environment.
On the M&A side, we supported the merger between Lake Shore Gold Corporation Lake Shore Gold and West Organic growth I am very proud to say that we have continued to deliver on our Timmins Mining WTM investing a further $91.1 million in 1 the enlarged company and bringing our ownership to 38% on production targets since the IPO.
2009 was our best year so far, with record attributable production of 28.2 million attributable an outstanding basis.
We have also delivered on our strategy by continuing to invest in Gold Resource Corporation GRC, silver equivalent ounces consolidating our position as the worlds third largest primary silver producer.
Results were which started production in early 2010.
The two companies have impressive production targets and, in aggregate, have a market particularly strong at Pallancata, where both silver and gold production doubled year-on-year and at San Jos, where silver capitalisation of $1,463.3 million, valuing Hochschilds stakes at 2 $504.5 million.
and gold production increased 14% and 42% respectively.
This has also been a year of delivery for our exploration team, Whilst we delivered on production, management were also particularly focused on cost control, and as mentioned above, with Azuca doubling resources to 44.1 million silver equivalent ounces and Crespo reporting resources of 44.7 million silver unit cost per tonne decreased by 11% during the year.
Including Moris, our only open pit mine, the reduction was even more equivalent ounces, following extensive drilling campaigns.
Azuca has the potential to be our next mine and an addition impressive with a 15% saving.
We have also lowered our administrative expenses by $17.7 million, including a 28% to our Peruvian operational cluster.
We are in the process of initiating a scoping study at this project.
reduction in personnel expenses and a 34% decrease in professional fees.
Resource life of mine which includes reserves for our three main operations: Arcata, Pallancata and San Jos increased by M&A growth 20% from 5.9 to 7.1 years, whilst reserve life of mine has been In 2009, we continued to execute our cluster consolidation maintained at 3.3 years.
Our total attributable resource tonnage strategy by securing bolt-on acquisitions, joint ventures and 3 including all our operations, main projects and investments, strategic investments in a number of key mining districts, has more than doubled from 20.7 million to 43.6 million whilst investing a total of $239.5 million during the year.
contained silver equivalent ounces, on an attributable basis, As I mentioned earlier, Lake Shore Gold and GRC are important increased from 313.4 million to 402.8 million.
strategic investments for Hochschild and provide exposure to We have delivered a strong set of financial results with revenue impressive production potential and long-term growth.
for the year up 24% to $539.7 million.
Operating profit more than doubled to $153.6 million and, as a consequence, preexceptional EPS has increased from $0.05 to $0.17.
1 Amount invested from December 2009 to March 2010 following completion of the Lake Shore Gold WTM transaction 2 As at 19 March 2010 on an outstanding basis 3 Arcata, Pallancata, San Jos, Moris, Ares, Azuca, Crespo, Lake Shore Gold, Inmaculada and San Felipe 4 Gross proceeds 5 On a fully diluted basis, Hochschilds equity interest at 31 December 2009 was 25.0%.
In addition, during 2010, $9.5 million has been invested, increasing Hochschilds stake to 05 26.7%.
On an outstanding basis, Hochschilds interest increased from 27.0% to 28.7% in 2010 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Growth strategy Chairmans statement continued Proposed total dividend $0.04 We were fully supportive of Lake Shore Golds merger with Responsible mining WTM which created the new large-scale, wholly-owned Efficient operations can only be achieved through good Timmins West Gold Mine Complex, an extension of the community support and we are dedicated to maintaining the world-class Timmins gold mining trend.
Lake Shore Gold highest standards of corporate and social responsibility.
We are has announced an updated production target of 65,000 ounces committed to the safety of all our employees and have made of gold 3.9 million silver equivalent ounces in 2010, building significant progress over the past year.
In 2009, we reduced our production over the following three years with the potential to accident frequency rate by 9% compared to 2008.
Nonetheless, produce 350,000 ounces 21 million silver equivalent ounces it is with deep regret that I report three mine fatalities in 2009. by 2013.
We have addressed the underlying safety deficiencies that led to the occurrence of these tragic events and we continue to view To date, we have invested $63.5 million in GRC, increasing any fatalities as unacceptable.
Our investment in the company gives us access to high grade, low cost ounces expanding our Board and management changes operational cluster in southern Mexico, a mining friendly During the year we welcomed a new Non-Executive Director, country with significant mineral potential.
GRC started Fred Vinton, to the Board.
Fred has over 30 years banking and production in February 2010 with a production target of 70,000 commercial experience and brings a wide range of knowledge ounces of gold 4.2 million silver equivalent ounces in the first and skills to Hochschild.
It is with sadness that the Board has accepted the resignation During the year we have also completed the strategic of Miguel Arambur, who wishes to step down as CEO for acquisition of Southwestern Resources Corp SWG, personal reasons, with effect from 1 April 2010.
I would like to a Canadian mineral exploration company for $19.2 million.
thank Miguel for his enormous contribution to the Company The acquisition consolidated our position in southern Peru over the last 15 years and particularly his successful tenure as by adding a number of early stage projects to our pipeline CEO.
I also want to thank him for his dedication to the business including Crespo and Josnitoro.
and, personally speaking, for his friendship over this period.
Ignacio Bustamante, COO, will succeed Miguel Arambur as Exploration growth CEO and as an Executive Director from 1 April 2010.
Ernesto In addition to the exploration success achieved at our existing Balarezo, currently head of our Peruvian operations will assume operations, we are also confident about a number of projects the role of VP of Operations with effect from 1 April 2010. in our pipeline which are delivering positive results.
The Board also regrettably announces that it has accepted the Azuca is a 3,000 hectare project located in southern Peru, only resignation of Ignacio Rosado, CFO, who is leaving the Company 50 kilometres northwest of Arcata and within Hochschilds with effect from 31 May 2010 to develop his career further by operational cluster.
During 2009, we undertook 26,240 metres pursuing a CEO role.
During his tenure as CFO, Ignacio has of drilling and doubled resources, with 3.7 million tonnes at played a key role in the execution of Hochschilds strategy 287.7 g t Ag and 1.3 g t Au.
As mentioned above, Azuca has the ensuring a strong financial platform and the continued delivery potential to be our next mine and in 2010 we have initiated a of the Companys objectives.
I would also like to thank Ignacio scoping study, with a feasibility study to follow.
for his significant contribution over the years and I wish him well in his future career.
Ignacio will be succeeded by Ramn We have also made progress in Crespo, a low-grade gold silver Bara, currently CEO of Fosfatos del Pacifico and previously disseminated deposit in our Peruvian cluster.
Hochschilds General Manager of Hochschilds Mexican operations.
drilling programme, which is focused on increasing resources, has identified significant high-grade ore bodies and as at I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all our 31 December 2009, Crespo reported resources of 44.7 million employees for the hard work that has enabled Hochschild silver equivalent ounces, with 17.8 million tonnes at 38.8 g t Ag to progress its strategic goals.
Dividend In 2009, we also made progress at Victoria in northern Chile, The Board recommends a final dividend of $0.02 per Ordinary which is part of a partnership with Iron Creek Capital Corp. Share resulting in a total dividend for the year of $0.04 per During the year, 28 drill holes totalling 7,626 metres were Ordinary Share.
We will keep dividend policy under review completed and anomalous gold and silver mineralisation was in accordance with the capital availability and requirements encountered in all drill holes with significant intercepts.
06 Growth strategy D elivering our growth strategy R Over the next few pages we explain our three-part strategy for future growth.
Outlook At Ares, given the ageing nature of the deposit, operating costs We entered 2010 with a solid foundation for continued growth are expected to increase through to its expected closure in the and a positive precious metals outlook.
Our production target second half of 2010. for 2010 is 29 million silver equivalent ounces.
Production from The Company is pleased to announce that it is significantly existing operations is expected to be 26.3 million attributable increasing its exploration spend from $28.6 million in 2009 silver equivalent ounces comprising approximately 17.6 million to $50 million in 2010.
The exploration programme will focus ounces of silver and 145,000 ounces of gold.
The target also on extending the life of Hochschilds existing operations and includes 2.7 million silver equivalent ounces from our interests identifying high-quality, early stage precious metal projects in Lake Shore Gold and GRC.
which will provide cost effective growth.
In 2010, the Company expects Arcatas silver grades to be at With $77.8 million in cash at the end of 2009, we are in a sound similar levels to Q409 as accessible mine areas will continue financial position and well placed to deliver our long-term to have narrower veins and changing geotechnical conditions.
Our focus will continue to be on producing As anticipated, production and grades at the Companys ageing profitable ounces and expanding the business through mine Ares will continue to decline, with closure expected in the appropriate investment and acquisition.
We take an extremely rigorous approach to managing costs Eduardo Hochschild that are within our control and we are currently undertaking a Executive Chairman number of initiatives which will contribute to cost containment.
23 March 2010 However, management expects an increase in unit cost per tonne at our underground mines of around 10% in 2010, mostly as a result of inflation related to labour and supply costs.
Below: Employees at Ares, Peru 07
