REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Chairmans statement Th is has been a challenging year for the UK retail industry.
While pro t performance in the short term with the approximate 3% or 60m of underlying cannot be immune from the economic backcost in ation therefore being largely offset by drop, the Groups underlying strengths will excellent cost management in all other areas.
secure our continued longer-term success.
The Groups financial position has been Delivering another year of net cash generastrengthened by maintaining a clear focus on tion has been an excellent result and ensures cash.
From 200m of pro forma net debt ahead of we are well placed for the future.
demerger in 2006, we ended this financial year with a net cash position of 284m after generatAfter two years of double-digit earnings growth, ing a further 110m.
this year has seen benchmark pro t before tax reduce by 24% to 328m.
This has been a direct Dividend maintained result of the signi cant worsening in the ecoOur cash generation and our overall prudent nomic environment.
Household discretionary financial position have led to the Boards recomexpenditure came under pressure from rising mendation of a 10.0p final dividend, which is to bills and food prices, while the global financial be paid to shareholders on 22 July 2009.
This repcrisis turning into recession, coupled with a resents shareholder dividend income maintained falling housing market, has clearly compounded at the level of the prior year.
The total dividend of deteriorating consumer con dence and their 14.7p for the year is covered 1.76 times by basic willingness or ability to spend.
While underlying demand in our product Oliver Stocken markets has clearly weakened, the strength of Responsible retailing Chairman Home Retail Groups position has not.
There has also been further progress in corporate responsibility something that remains in our Advancing and adapting the customer offer focus irrespective of the dif cult trading environThe overall customer offer continues to improve.
Waste sent to land ll has reduced by 46% Weve further expanded the Argos catalogue, and this year, with the Group now recycling over 70% the development of internet-only ranges is the of the total waste it produces.
Weve met our next stage of offering even more choice.
Leaderstretching targets on supplier audits, with 856 ship in multi-channel has seen more customer factories audited over the last two years.
And our enhancements to our Check & Reserve and home colleagues and customers raised 1.8m for our delivery services.
Meanwhile, Homebase has seen charity partners, which together with the value of its installation offer and its in-store service and the Groups own charitable giving takes our presentation drive forward its market share in contribution to 2.7m for the year.
The customer offer has also adapted to Commitment and support changing customer needs in challenging times.
The actions and commitment of our colleagues The Argos Value range and its WOW deals in stores, distribution and customer contact have been substantially increased.
As well as centres, sourcing operations and head of ce Homebase strengthening its own value position, functions have all contributed to the strengthenit has also led market development in areas such ing of Home Retail Groups position.
The Groups as energy-ef cient products, and in other success is very much a team effort and I would customer cost-saving trends such as grow your like to thank the Board, the management team own produce.
and all our colleagues in every part of our business.
Equally important are all our other Cost action and cash focus stakeholders and I also thank them for their Our businesses have responded with necessary continued support.
cost action, given the weakening demand environment.
Operating and distribution cost growth Oliver Stocken was contained to a 1% or 14m increase in total, Chairman 8 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2009
