HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2009 5 The decision to exit this business Chairmans statement is one we have considered very carefully in light of our dedicated employees, customer relationships and investment of time and resources in building the business since 2002.
In addition, as a result of ongoing trading challenges and deteriorating financial performance, we have taken the difficult but necessary decision to write down the value of UK Emergency Services assets resulting in an impairment charge of 97m and a statutory pre-tax loss for the year for HomeServes core policy membership the Group of 21.7m.
operations have delivered another strong Core Membership Operations - performance.
Across the UK, Continental business development Europe and US we have seen 14% policy We are very pleased with the strong performance of all our membership growth to 9.2m, 8% growth in customers businesses.
Our UK Membership and 22% operating profit growth to business has delivered another year 92.3m.
of strong growth with gross new policy sales of 1.83m 2008: 1.68m and our During the year, we transferred those retention rate for the year remained parts of our claims handling and high at 83% 2008: 85%.
Our decision network operations that support to focus on driving value per customer our UK policy customers into UK has been successful through continued Membership from Emergency Services.
conversion of existing members to Our original intention for Emergency Combined Policies and income per Services was to develop a unique, customer growing by 18% to 59. national, multi-trade network in the The reorganisation of our UK UK to support our growing policy operations has created a fully membership base and to provide an integrated membership business integrated claims fulfilment solution for including claims management and household insurers.
policy repair networks resulting in Whilst we have validated the benefit improved customer service and more to insurers of such an integrated hub focused and efficient service delivery proposition, we have not progressed with one division taking ownership for strategic partnerships of this type the entire customer journey.
at a rate consistent with our original We have also reached a significant objectives.
On the back of this and milestone in our international ongoing challenges within the operations which delivered an insurance sector, we have decided to operating profit for the year of 5.1m reposition the Group to focus on our compared with a loss of 0.5m last membership businesses which we year.
believe is in the best long-term interest of our shareholders.
Accordingly, we have decided to exit UK Emergency Services and are currently progressing a number of approaches.
HomeServe Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2009 6 Our European business has trebled Revenue for our three membership operating profit to 5.3m 2008: businesses increased by 8% to 284m, 1.8m with Domo, our French joint or 25% excluding the impact from the venture with Veolia, having another change in underwriting.
Operating very successful year and doubling profit increased by 22% to 92.3m.
total 100% profits to 14.0m 2008: Revenue within UK Emergency Services 6.8m.
In Spain, Reparalia continues decreased by 20% to 233.6m 2008: to progress well, growing revenue 291.7m and operating profit by 47% and helping to facilitate agreements to 8.0m 2008: 15.1m.
Our Spanish policy business ended the As reported in our interim results, we year with 47,700 policies on the back incurred 1.5m of costs in relation to of an encouraging start to full-scale the aborted second hub deal and marketing with Endesa.
We have also 5m of costs have arisen from the expanded geographically through the reorganisation of our UK businesses acquisition of SPT, Belgiums leading of which 2.7m relates to non-core claims handling and repair network operations.
The total exceptional costs business.
of 6.5m together with the write down of UK Emergency Services assets of 97m result in a statutory loss before We are delighted with the continued tax of 21.7m and loss per share of strong performance of our membership 56.2p.
HomeServe continues to have a strong balance sheet, ending the year with In addition, the USA has made net debt of 34m and with significant excellent progress, generating a profit headroom on lending facilities.
in the second half and is now profitable on an ongoing basis.
During the year Dividend the business increased customer Continuing our policy of increasing numbers by 50% and the retention dividends in line with earnings rate to 80% 2008: 78%.
We are also growth, the Board is proposing a final pleased to announce the signing of dividend of 25p per share to be paid on a 10-year marketing agreement with 4 August 2009 to shareholders on the SEMCO Energy Gas Company, a gas register on 3 July 2009.
This brings the utility based in Michigan, which will total dividend for the year to 35.5p, a provide us with access to an additional year on year increase of 14%.
250,000 households and includes the acquisition of 26,300 policies.
Employees We now have approximately 3,000 Results employees in our core operations and Revenue for the Group declined 7% 5,500 employees in the total Group.
to 517.4m 2008: 554.9m as a Our employees remain committed result of a fall in volumes within UK and dedicated and have once again Emergency Services and the change contributed significantly to another in underwriting arrangements in the excellent year and I should like to thank UK and operating profit increased by them for their hard work.
Group profit before tax increased by 13% to 96.1m and earnings per share increased by 14%.
HomeServe 7 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Our International operations are Overall, HomeServe is well positioned for becoming increasingly significant future growth and we are committed contributors to Group performance with comparatively low household to a membership-focused strategy.
penetration in these countries providing further growth potential.
We Organisational changes have a firm foundation in Spain through We have also announced that our the strong performance of Reparalia Chief Financial Officer, Jonathan and 47,700 live policies and, with the Simpson-Dent has decided to leave the acquisition of SPT, we now have a business to pursue other opportunities.
platform to develop a policy business in Jonathan is being replaced as CFO Belgium and the Netherlands.
by Martin Bennett, currently Finance Director of our UK Membership division, HomeServe is focused on delivering who has been with HomeServe for six long term growth and continues years.
I would like to thank Jonathan to explore selective investment for the significant contribution he has opportunities to support the made to HomeServe over the last two development of the three membership years and congratulate Martin on his businesses.
The performance of our appointment.
policy businesses has demonstrated the resilience of the business model Prospects and attractiveness of our products to We are delighted with the continued our customers.
strong performance of our membership Overall, HomeServe is well positioned businesses.
for future growth and we are Our UK Membership business committed to a membership-focused continues to perform well and has strategy.
demonstrated its resilience with high levels of gross new policy sales and Brian Whitty increasing value per customer.
Our Chairman focus on targeting new customers 19 May 2009 through initiatives like One Contact, new product development and broadening our relationships with affinity partners will help to maintain strong growth in UK Membership going forward.
HomeServe Business review Annual Report & Accounts 2009 8 HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2009 9 07 Lead paragraph Focusing on customer needs Providing customers with access to fully-insured, high quality emergency service solutions To provide a range of products covering all aspects of the home Striving to retain our customers, year after year through providing high levels of customer service and value for money
