Chairmans statement Howdens business model has I am pleased to report that Howden When we sold MFI in October 2006, withstood the challenges of Joinery performed resiliently in the we retained responsibilities in respect restructuring and recession.
It very challenging market conditions of a portfolio of over 100 legacy is our ability to harness its power that persisted in 2009.
In this properties, with an annual net rent that will drive the business forward.
difficult environment, contrary to the and rates liability of 30m.
Today, expectations of some commentators, through the skill and determination we delivered an increase in gross of our property team, and thanks to margin of over three percentage points the cash generated by the Howden and a reduction in stock of 35m.
Cash Joinery business, that liability has been generated from operations enabled us greatly reduced.
At the year end, only to continue to invest in the business, 55 legacy properties remained in our to meet our legacy commitments and portfolio, and our annual rent and rates signicantly to reduce our borrowings.
We continue to work to mitigate the impact Howdens business model is locally of legacy property liabilities.
based, which means it depends on personal relationships of trust built up During the year we were pleased to by individual depot staff with the small reach agreement with the Groups builders who are their customers.
pension trustees in respect of our It is this model that has withstood contributions to the Group pension the challenges of restructuring and scheme until April 2012.
It is our ability to agreement, which is testimony 06 harness its power that will drive the to the strength of our relationship business forward.
with the schemes trustees, is performance-related, which means Today, Howdens sells more kitchens our cash liabilities are dened in a than any other player in the UK market.
way which takes account of market The business is strongly positioned conditions, and will decrease should to deliver continuing growth and performance deteriorate.
The Board believes that, in the current economic As a leading supplier of kitchen and climate, Howdens resources should joinery products, we are conscious be focused on continuing to seize that we have a duty to mitigate the opportunities to grow sales, profit environmental impact of our products and market share: and therefore that, and services.
The Board is committed although the matter remains under to improving our performance in this constant review, the time is not yet area through responsible sourcing and right to recommend the resumption continuous innovation as well as the of dividend payments.
vigorous implementation of energy efficiency measures.
Galiform Plc Annual report & accounts 2009 In 2009, over 96% of all our UK During the year the Company was We will continue to adapt to manufactured product was certied by entered for three prestigious awards, any changes in market and the UK Forest Stewardship Council and we are especially pleased to economic conditions.
2008: 85% and we recycled over have our achievements recognised 95% of our manufacturing waste in all three cases.
We continue to receive the turnaround of the Companys Energy efficiency Accreditation from the performance was recognised when Carbon Trust, and are working with our we were named European Listed suppliers to gain Energy Savings Trust Company Turnaround at the Institute certication for several of our appliances.
for Turnarounds annual awards, and we went on to win the Turnaround Peter Wallis, who has served as of the Year prize at the PLC awards a non-executive director since 2001, 2010.
We also reached the Top 25 in has decided to step down at the The Sunday Times Best Companies Annual General Meeting on 19 May.
award, which measures employee We thank him for his valuable contribution engagement, with an exceptionally to the work of the Board over high level of participation from our nine years.
On behalf of the Board, I would successor is underway.
like to congratulate all concerned.
In the spring of 2009 we began Looking ahead, we expect market publication of a series of pocketconditions in 2010 to remain sized books entitled A Truly Local 07 challenging and are cautious about Business.
These books, which are the outlook.
As the year evolves, and distributed to our staff, customers, we enter the next stage of Howdens suppliers and investors, celebrate growth and development, we will the active role played by our people continue to adapt to any changes in their local communities across the in market and economic conditions.
Last year, our staff made I strongly believe that the actions around 1,750 separate donations to taken by the management team help local causes of all kinds, from have positioned your company to youth clubs to care homes, from life rise to the challenges of the current support machines to lifeboats.
The environment, and to recognise and books also serve to underline the fact take advantage of opportunities that that Howdens is founded on people will undoubtedly arise.
and the relationships they make.
These relationships, which depend on honesty, Will Samuel integrity, openness and trust, are at the Chairman heart of our business.
We are grateful 3 March 2010 for and proud of the dedication and commitment shown by all our people throughout the year.
