annual report & accounts 2009 Chairmans Statement The Company has produced income was lower than planned counsel, and wish him well in the satisfactory results in a difficult year.
due to reduced North American rig future.
Profit before tax from continuing counts.
We recruited two new non-executive operations before exceptional items in Our Exploration and Production Directors to the Board.
John 2009 was 38.5m 2008 - 56.6m, a operation in the southern US suffered Hofmeister, a resident of Houston, 32% decrease.
from lower natural gas prices and Texas, was formerly President of Shell Throughout the year, the strong from reduced production caused by Oil Company US.
He is the founder balance sheet has been a bonus long-term damage from the 2008 and CEO of the charity Citizens for and has enabled us to make several hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico.
John Nicholas, who acquisitions of compatible businesses lives in Buckinghamshire, England, Gibson Shipbrokers had a difficult without recourse to borrowings.
was the Group Finance Director of year in dismal shipping markets, However, low interest rates meant Tate & Lyle plc.
He is a member of the but nevertheless achieved a small that cash in the bank earned relatively Financial Reporting Review Panel.
By contrast, Field Aviation, our little interest.
Canadian-based aircraft completion The Company has had a petroleumMarkets for hydrocarbons ultimately facility, had an excellent year with related presence in Paris, France since determine demand for our products satisfactory deliveries to several before the Second World War.
We sold and services and, in the early part of important customers.
those interests at the end of the year to the year, fears of a global depression a group including some of the former The Company has used its resources were at their height.
Our best wishes go and the lull in the previous breakneck for oil and gas meant that prices for with them.
rate of expansion to invest in new, these commodities were very low.
more efficient facilities where we I said last year that we were well Since then, fortunately, the global can see that these will be required in placed to survive the buffeting from oil price has recovered to a level the longer term.
Significant capital the world economic storm.
We have satisfactory to both producers and investments are underway in Casper, indeed survived in good health and consumers.
Wyoming: Conroe, Texas: Fordoun, the worst of the storm has abated.
Natural gas prices, however, south of Aberdeen, Scotland: and in Moreover, we have taken steps to grow especially in North America, have Wuxi, China.
the business both organically and by lost their traditional link to oil prices acquisition, a process which continues Earnings per share for continuing and, though now recovered slightly, in 2010. operations before exceptional items current low natural gas prices are due were 17.7p, a decrease of 33% on I thank all our staff for their splendid mainly to the availability of huge new the previous year.
We are declaring a efforts in a tough year.
resources of shale gas in the United second interim dividend for 2009 of States and current storage levels.
7.0p per share payable on 31 March The international arena for the 2010, giving a total of 10.5p for the Company, outside North America, has year, a 6% increase.
This second proved much stronger and we have interim dividend will replace the enjoyed good results in South East final dividend that would normally Asia, in the Middle East and in North be approved at the Annual General Richard Hunting, Chairman West Europe.
Meeting of the Company to be held in April 2010 and paid thereafter.
Within our principal operating company, Hunting Energy Services, During the year, Hector McFadyen, the Well Completion business a non-executive Director of the continued to perform to expectations Company since 2002, retired from aided by strong international the Board.
My colleagues and I thank markets.
However, Well Construction him for his diligent enquiry and wise www.
: 64513 Proof Event: 32 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Hunting Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2009 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 cHaiRMans statEMEnt annual report & accounts 2009 We have made several acquisitions of compatible businesses without recourse to borrowing and used our balance sheet strength to invest in new more efficient facilities where we can see that these will be required in the longer term.
: 64513 Proof Event: 32 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Hunting Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2009 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
