Business review Overview Chairmans statement confidence and lack of credit availability.
However, with the gradual thawing of global credit markets and falling interest rates, assisted by government incentive schemes in several markets, 2009 global car sales outperformed most expectations.
Globally, the industry sold just over 63m vehicles in 2009, a 3.9% decline from 2008 and a 5.1% decline from 2007.
Of particular note, China became the worlds largest car market in 2009, surpassing the USA.
Car sales in China surged some 50% to 12.9m vehicles in 2009, driven by government incentives on fuel efficient vehicles and increasing demand for car ownership.
Strategy We have remained true to our differentiating Customer 1st strategy which has enabled us to both strengthen our market position and to further cement our relationships with our manufacturer brand partners.
At the same time, management has remained focused on five self-help measures: growing Inchcape has responded swiftly market share: growing aftersales: reducing costs: managing working capital: and and decisively to an unprecedented selective capital expenditure investment.
These measures have generated a strong global downturn.
The Groups focus cash performance with a cost base and continues to be on customer service levels of working capital that are well below those at the end of 2008. and we have gained share in most Performance of our markets, while cutting costs and reducing inventory.
We are well As a result of the unprecedented decline in the global car markets, Group sales have positioned for the future.
decreased by 10.8% to 5.6bn for the full year to 31 December 2009.
On a like for like, constant currency basis, sales fell by 14.6%.
Ken Hanna This is my first year as Chairman of We began our swift response to changing Chairman Inchcape plc and despite challenging market conditions in the fourth quarter of trading conditions in most of our markets 2008 when we implemented a number of around the world I am pleased to report restructuring measures to reduce our cost results for 2009 above our expectations base.
During the last quarter of 2008 and with particularly impressive cash generation.
early 2009 we closed 31 less profitable sites This has demonstrated the resilience of and reduced our workforce by 2,350 people.
Inchcapes business model, the success of These actions generated annualised cost our self-help measures and an outstanding savings of approximately 70m.
level of leadership and commitment from profit before tax and exceptional items of our employees.
155.1m was 18.7% lower than 2008 and adjusted earnings per share fell 46% to 2.7p Automotive industry adjusted for the bonus element of the Rights Issue.
On a statutory basis, profit At the start of 2009, the global automotive before tax was 136.7m, 26.3% above 2008. industry faced a rapid and unprecedented Cash generated from operations during downturn driven by falling consumer the year was 336.7m which is the highest Source: Global Insight 6 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section One Business review level generated by the Group since 2000 talented colleagues both on the Board of its size and nature in the UK market.
The and represents a 215% conversion of and throughout the business.
share consolidation is subject to approval operating profit.
by shareholders at the Annual General There have been a number of other Meeting to be held on 13 May 2010. changes to the Board.
On 14 May 2009 Following the share consolidation there is Debt reduction Graham Pimlott was appointed as expected to be approximately 460m Chairman of the Audit Committee, with Inchcape ordinary shares in issue, reduced Raymond Chien and Karen Guerra both The Group has historically maintained an from approximately 4.6bn at present.
appropriate level of borrowings based on a prudent balance sheet strategy.
Given Following three years with the Group and Approach to governance the precipitous decline in economic the successful completion of the Rights and corporate responsibility conditions seen at the end of 2008 and Issue, Barbara Richmond, Group Finance the challenging trading environment Director, left the Group at the end of June.
forecast for 2009, the Board announced We continue to focus on the importance of John McConnell was appointed to the an equity raise via a Rights Issue in March good governance and apply the Combined position with effect from 1 October 2009 2009 which was completed in April 2009.
Code and other relevant guidance for and joined the Board as an Executive This enabled us to reduce our debt and listed companies in our global operations.
John was formerly CEO Inchcape strengthen the capital structure of the Integrating socially responsible behaviour Australasia, before that CFO and has 10 Group.
I would like to thank our shareholders into every aspect of how we operate and yearsexperience with the Group.
define ourselves remains high on our Also, we were pleased to announce the agenda.
In 2009 we have built on the The net proceeds of 234.3m raised by this appointment of two new Non-Executive foundations of a global approach to Rights Issue together with the actions we Directors with effect from 1 July 2009:Alison corporate responsibility that is making took to restructure our cost base and Cooper, who is currently Chief Operating responsible economic, environmental and reduce working capital, together with the officer, Chief Executive Designate and social behaviour intrinsic to the way we work.
benets of our geographic spread and board member of Imperial Tobacco Group diversied revenue streams, enabled us to plc, joined the Board and has also become be in a net cash position at year end.
People a member of the Audit Committee: Nigel Northridge, currently Chairman of Paddy Acquisition and disposals On behalf of the Board, I wish to express my Power plc, Senior Independent Director sincere thanks to all our colleagues across of Aggreko plc and Chairman of the Group for their commitment and During 2009 we made an earn out payment Debenhams plc, joined the Board and support throughout the extremely of US$35m and a further US$5m will be paid has also become a member of the challenging trading conditions in 2009. in 2010 in relation to the acquisition of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
75.1% interest in the Musa Motors group, one of Russias largest car retailers.
Whilst the Outlook Dividend Russian car market has been challenging in 2009 and we expect this environment to Inchcape is uniquely positioned in the global continue in 2010, we are confident that due In line with our disclosure in last years Annual car industry and in 2009 the Group has Report and Accounts and in the Prospectus to our scale position and the low levels of continued to outperform its competitors.
car ownership, our investment in Russia has published at the time of the Rights Issue, the Whilst we expect market conditions in 2010 to placed us in a strong position to benefit Board is not recommending the payment of remain challenging, the Group is well placed when the market rebounds.
an ordinary dividend for the year in light of to benefit from the market recovery and to the challenging trading conditions.
take advantage of industry consolidation opportunities in the medium term.
Capital expenditure Whilst no decision has been made as yet concerning a dividend in 2010, we intend to return to our stated aim of maintaining Whilst in 2009 we reduced our discretionary a progressive dividend policy as soon as capital expenditure in agreement with our brand partners, we have continued to trading conditions allow.
make strategic investments, opening nine greeneld sites across the world.
Share consolidation Ken Hanna Board The Board intends to propose a 1 for 10 Chairman consolidation of Inchcape plc ordinary After 15 years with the Group, Peter Johnson shares.
The purpose of the share consolidation is to reduce the total number retired as Non-Executive Chairman and I was delighted to be appointed to the role of shares now in issue following the Rights with effect from 14 May 2009.
I would like Issue undertaken in 2009 and to increase to thank Peter for his years of service and I the likely price of the Companys shares to a feel privileged to be working with so many gure more appropriate for a listed company www.
com 7 Official opening of Lexus Shanghai, China In 2009, we opened nine sites in strategic locations around the world.
Our third retail centre in China, Lexus Shanghai, is in one of the most dynamic, flourishing cities in the world.
The centre is over 2 19,000m with an impressive array of customer areas and services.
8 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section One Business review Business review 10 Group Chief Executives strategic review 20 Key performance indicators 22 Operating review 36 Financial review 38 Principal risks 40 Corporate responsibility www.
