the Year in Review chaIRmans statement Despite 2009 being an extremely tough year for STRENgTh: the world economy, I am pleased to report a good performance from Informa over the last 12 months.
Informa is in a stronger position than it was this time last year to deal It was an extremely demanding year, but one which with challenges and also benefit brought to the fore some of the key characteristics from the multiple opportunities of Informa.
Three features stand out: available to the Group.
the resilience of our portfolio of assets diversified across vertical markets and geographies: Derek Mapp, Chairman the operational flexibility of our business, which allowed us to continue to protect margins through prompt cutting of costs: and the entrepreneurial spirit of our people who pursued new opportunities even as market conditions remained uncertain.
Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2009 was 1.22bn down only 4% on 2008.
Adjusted operating profits were 309.5m, up 1% on 2008.
The adjusted operating margin improved accordingly from 23.9% to 25.3% and adjusted cash conversion was 105%.
On an organic basis, revenues declined by 14% with publishing up 2% and events and training down 27%, partly driven by our pro-active reduction of the number of events we run.
Organic adjusted operating profits declined by 12%, with an increase in publishing of 8% offset by a 41% decline across events and training.
Profit before taxation decreased to 96.5m 2008: 109.0m as a result of the cost of restructuring during the year whilst basic earnings per share increased by 12% to 18.8p 2008: 16.8p restated.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share increased to 34.3p 2008: 33.9p restated.
In order to strengthen our balance sheet and remove any market concerns about our ability to finance our business within current banking covenants we launched a rights issue in May, raising a net 242m.
We ended the year with net debt of 872.6m 2008: 1,341.8m and a net debt to EBITDA multiple of 2.7 times against a covenant of 3.5 times.
It is our intention to trade between 2.0 and 2.5 times going forward, a level which is in line with investment grade parameters for credit managers.
By the start of 2009 it was apparent that economic conditions were challenging and would continue to negatively impact trading.
As such we managed the business to protect profitability, optimise cash generation and take swift action 14 Informa plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 on head count and other variable costs.
During the year We are recommending a second interim dividend of 7.85p we reduced staff numbers by a further 8%, which drove per share.
This will be paid on 19 May 2010 to shareholders an annualised cost saving of 40m.
We reacted quickly on the register on 16 April 2010.
It will make a total to falling demand in the events business and reduced dividend for 2009 of 11.45p per share as against 8.41p per events output by a quarter which in itself was responsible share restated in 2008, an increase of 36%.
for half of the drop in events revenue.
Where appropriate, For almost all businesses, 2009 has been one of the we have also restructured our publishing businesses, toughest years they have ever experienced.
Informa is consolidating operations and reducing the cost base.
no exception, but we have performed well due to the We looked at all cost lines but were careful to leave actions taken within the business and the nature of our the core of our business intact and we have continued activities with their variety of vertical markets, multito invest both vertically and geographically where geographies, media formats, allied with strong cash trading conditions warranted it.
We were able generation, good cost control and high margins.
However, to react very quickly to the downturn given our our resilience and strength could not have been achieved variable cost base and we are in a strong position without the support of our people in every part of the to take advantage of an upturn when it comes.
Despite cost cuts and, in certain instances, lower incomes, every person in Informa has given their all.
We continue to look closely at our business portfolio I would like to thank and congratulate every one of them to find opportunities to bolster certain areas through on behalf of the Board and the shareholders.
Informa has a strong track record of generating value through the effective integration of Future Prospects acquisitions of all sizes.
Looking forward into 2010 and The economic background remains uncertain and beyond we will continue to make small bolt on acquisitions markets are unpredictable.
We remain cautious and are which fulfil our strict investment criteria.
We also seek to running our businesses accordingly.
However, Informa divest of businesses that do not fit our long-term strategy.
is in a stronger position than it was this time last year to We have continued to respond to client demands deal with challenges and also benefit from the multiple for information delivered digitally.
Of our publishing opportunities available to the Group.
revenues in 2009, 72% came from digital sources across Academic journal and other subscription renewals are in all of our major verticals.
64% of publishing revenues are line with our expectations.
Our UAE-based exhibitions in subscription led and we have largely moved from a legacy the first few months of 2010 have grown over last year and single subscriber business to corporate site licences, which on the conference side, our larger events such as the major now form the majority of our subscription business.
In German Energy Event and SuperReturn International 2009, publishing contributed 72% of total profits, while have performed well.
The short-term outlook for our more less than 3% of our total revenues come from advertising.
cyclical smaller conferences remains flat but the business Our strategy is to continue to develop a strong, high is well positioned for the economic upswing.
margin information business which is resilient in With considerable cost removed from the business we the downturn but will have appropriate operational are well placed to maximise the opportunities to grow gearing in the up cycle.
We have high internal as and when they arise.
Our portfolio of assets is well standards for cash control, strong corporate balanced across vertical markets and geographies.
We governance, strict management controls, allied with are pushing ahead with innovative ways to enhance the necessity to be innovative and entrepreneurial.
our customer offering and further develop an already During 2009 we launched the Abu Dhabi Yacht strong digital capability.
Show, established a new business venture in Saudi Arabia, opened an exhibition business alongside our conference operations in Brazil, invested in our Academic Derek mapp content platform, grew our telecommunications Com Chairman series of events worldwide especially in emerging markets and continued to develop our various Clinical Research publishing and events businesses.
Similar initiatives and new activity continue into 2010.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 15
