02 International Power Annual Report 2009 Chairmans statement International Powers financial position is robust and reflects strong free cash flow generation in 2009, the successful conclusion of significant refinancings, and good corporate liquidity.
Our portfolio operated well and delivered International Powers financial position is a good performance in 2009 with profit robust and reflects strong free cash flow from operations PFO at 1,157 million generation in 2009, which at 791 million and earnings per share EPS at 33.4 pence, was up 54% from 2008, the successful compared to 32.4 pence in 2008. conclusion of significant refinancings, and good corporate liquidity.
Power generation Stronger PFO from Europe and Australia, is clearly a capital-intensive business and together with improved performance in we have a robust capital structure centred Asia and the Middle East, helped to offset on non-recourse project finance, which the lower PFO in North America.
ensures that debt is appropriately sized Despite the challenging economic backdrop, for each individual project company in the business overall delivered earnings and a low risk structure.
cash flow ahead of our forecast at the start Our geographical spread and in-depth of the year, once again demonstrating the market knowledge provide us with good strength of our diversified international growth opportunities, and we continue asset portfolio.
to review both small and large-scale In North America, our merchant plants transactions if these make financial sense were principally impacted by a reduction for our shareholders.
In 2009 we grew the in demand and lower gas prices.
Given the portfolio through acquisitions and greenfield economic conditions, this temporary developments.
We acquired one of Canadas slow-down in US power demand was not largest independent wind farm developers, unexpected and the long-term fundamentals AIM PowerGen with 40MW of wind farms of our markets remain attractive.
in operation, 40MW under construction, and a development pipeline of up to 1,200MW.
In the UK, our strongly forward contracted Canada has a strong commitment to position helped us to deliver a good renewable generation, and this acquisition performance, notwithstanding weaker represents an attractive vehicle for further underlying market trends.
Australia has growth in the important renewables arena.
been largely insulated from the global economic slow-down.
Our portfolio of contracted plants across all regions continued to perform well.
All references to PFO and EPS in the Chairmans statement exclude exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
03 In January 2010, we completed the financing The Health, Safety and Environment HS&E 2009 has been a good year for International of a new 110MW long-term contracted Committee under the chairmanship of Struan Power, and it is due to the continued project in Thailand on attractive terms.
Robertson, ensures that there is clear Board commitment and hard work of our high This project is expected to be operational commitment to these vital areas for our quality teams that we have been able to in 2012.
In March 2010 we signed the business.
During 2009 the Committee met accomplish this performance.
I would like US$1,215 million financing for the 815MW twice, visiting Hazelwood and Loy Yang B to take this opportunity to thank all our coal-fired Paiton 3 plant in Indonesia, which in Australia and ISAB in Italy.
I am pleased employees for their continued contribution.
will be located within the existing Paiton to report that over 80% of our operational Our performance in 2009 again reflects complex.
The project has a 30-year power plants worldwide now operate to the certified the strength of our international portfolio purchase agreement PPA with PT PLN, OHSAS 18001 international standard for of both long-term contracted and merchant the Indonesian state utility, and is expected health and safety management systems.
Whilst 2010 will reflect the sale of our to be fully operational by the end of 2012.
Our in-house behavioural safety programme, Czech business and the likely impact of weak The construction of T-Power and Elecgas known as Fresh Eyes, continues to contribute market conditions in the US and the UK, our in Europe is making good progress, and towards positive changes in the HS&E culture high quality asset base means we are well Fujairah F2, in the UAE, is on schedule at our plants.
An increased focus on the positioned to capture value from any market to reach commercial operation this year.
HS&E performance at our construction recovery, and from periods of pricing projects, driven by our project managers Our principal strategic focus is to create volatility.
We continue to pursue a range and monitored regularly by the Board, shareholder value by growing the business, of growth opportunities to create value has resulted in further improvements its profitability and its cash flow.
This goes for shareholders, and overall the Groups in construction safety this year.
hand-in-hand with effective portfolio financial position is strong, with good management, and if selling a particular In 2009 we welcomed David Weston to the corporate liquidity and free cash flow.
business represents greater value creation Board as a Non-Executive Director.
David has for shareholders, then we will do so.
This broad international experience in energy and was evidenced in 2009 when, following capital intensive businesses from his time at very attractive offers, we sold our Czech Shell, and now as a member of the executive business and our interest in the Hartwell management team at Anglo American.
Sir Neville Simms plant in North America, crystallising In August last year, the Board announced Chairman excellent value for shareholders.
an interim dividend of 4.25 pence per share We remain focused on improving our 35% of the previous years full-year dividend.
environmental performance through The Board is proposing a final dividend of reducing the emissions intensity of our 8.28 pence per share for the year which, portfolio.
We aim to achieve this through a including the interim dividend, will take combination of investment in modern, high the total for 2009 to 12.53 pence per share.
efficiency, thermal generation, renewable This represents an increase of 3% on 2008 energy projects and efficiency improvements and an EPS pay-out ratio of 37.5%.
Two markets where major new environmental legislation is anticipated are Australia and the US and we maintain active engagement in the regulatory process.
