06 Intertek Annual Report 2009 Chairmans Statement Positioning for future growth Results Dividends Intertek delivered strong results in 2009, notwithstanding very An interim dividend of 8.2p per share 2008: 7.1p was paid to difficult macro-economic conditions throughout the world and shareholders on 20 November 2009.
The Directors will propose ended the year with a revenue gure of 1,237.3m, up 23.3% over a final dividend of 17.3p per share at the Annual General Meeting last year.
Excluding acquisitions revenue growth was 19.4%.
on 14 May 2010, to be paid on 18 June 2010 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 4 June 2010.
If approved, Operating profit was 186.7m, up 26.2% over last year.
Adjusted this will make a full year dividend of 25.5p per share 2008: 20.8p, operating profit increased to 209.0m, up 26.9%.
Our adjusted an increase of 22.6%.
operating margin increased by 50 basis points to 16.9%.
Excluding acquisitions, adjusted operating profit grew by 24.4%.
Acquisitions In 2009, we made three bolt-on acquisitions for total consideration Earnings per share of 30.8m 2008: 83.1m.
Details of these acquisitions are given Basic earnings per share were 72.4p, up 21.7% over last year in the Operating Review by division and in note 24 to the financial and diluted adjusted earnings per share were 81.5p, up 21.5%.
Our strategy of growing key industry sectors through acquisitions is unchanged, although we deliberately scaled back our acquisitions in 2009 to concentrate on integrating the businesses we acquired in prior years.
We will continue to invest in new opportunities as they arise.
The Board On 14 January 2010, we announced that Bill Spencer has decided to retire from his position as Chief Financial officer.
Bill has served Intertek extremely well for over 18 years and has played a valuable part in the development of the Group.
After 24 years with the Group, Richard Nelson retired from the Intertek Board on 1 September 2009.
Richards work over the past two decades, as Chief Executive officer and more recently as Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman, will have a lasting impact and has been integral in taking Intertek to the successful position that it holds today.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank both Bill and Richard very much for the significant contribution they have made to the Group.
Our best wishes for the future to them both.
On 1 September 2009, I was pleased to welcome Edward Astle and Gavin Darby to the Board as Non-Executive Directors.
Edward Astle is Pro-Rector of Commercial Development at Imperial College London where he leads the development of major business opportunities in the UK and internationally.
Edwards management and commercial strategy experience at high level in the telecoms, industrial and science related elds will bring additional perspective to the Board.
com Intertek Annual Report 2009 07 Gavin Darby is Operations and Business Development Director of and there are email and telephone hotlines so that staff may report Vodafone Group Plc for the Asia Pacic and Middle East Region.
anonymously, any inaccurate or unethical working practices.
Our Gavins extensive background in overseeing the operational strong focus on compliance provides assurance to our customers development of businesses across international markets will be that our reports and certicates are valid and accurate.
a valuable complement to the Board.
Employees In April 2010, Lloyd Pitchford will join the Board as Chief Financial Our mission to support and add value for our customers is delivered officer.
Lloyd has spent ten years with BG Group plc, one of the through over 25,000 people across Intertek worldwide.
Its been largest UK publicly listed companies holding the role of Group a tough year for many of our customers and the dedication of our Financial Controller for the BG Group for the past five years.
Lloyds employees to customer service and going the extra mile has helped extensive international and management experience with large, us to retain business in the face of increased competition.
We complex and growing organisations will assist Intertek to explore constantly strive to improve our capacity to attract, develop and exciting opportunities across global markets.
I am delighted to retain the best people who share in the mission, values and success welcome Lloyd to the Board and am confident that he will of the Group.
contribute to Interteks continued success.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to welcome all new employees Environmental impact to Intertek and to thank all our employees around the world for Intertek is committed to playing an important and positive role their commitment to making 2009 another successful year.
with respect to climate change and the environmental impact of products and processes.
We advise our clients, as an integral part Summary of our business, on many issues which have an impact on the Intertek has performed strongly in difficult circumstances and environment, such as the chemical content of their products and generated cash.
Our key growth drivers remain intact and the packaging, the energy efficiency of their equipment, CO emissions Boards confidence in the future is reected by the dividend 2 and the disposal of harmful substances and waste electrical increase of 22.6%.
We also provide advisory and consultancy services to help retailers and manufacturers design their products and services to comply with current and future environmental regulations around the world.
Through our services we help our clients to minimise the environmental impact of their products and processes for the benefit of society as a whole.
We are also mindful of our own impact on the environment and are working on various initiatives to reduce this.
Quality and integrity Quality and integrity are in essence what our customers are buying and they therefore lie at the heart of Interteks culture and processes.
We have embedded our values across the organisation and are continually reviewing and reinforcing our internal processes to ensure compliance.
The Intertek Compliance Code and Code of Ethics provide practical guidance and instruction for employees
