Chairmans Statement We achieved a creditable operating profit performance with good results from our Invensys Operations Management and Invensys Rail businesses and a resilient performance from our Invensys Controls business in the face of very difficult Martin Jay market conditions.
Chairman As I mentioned in last years Annual Report, I will be retiring from my role as Chairman and director of Invensys after this years AGM on 17 July 2009.
In this, my final statement to shareholders, I would therefore like to reflect upon the significant achievements that the Group has made during the last six years.
I became Chairman of Invensys in 2003.
Since then: our net debt, which stood at over 1.5 billion in 2003, has been reduced to the point where we are now debt free and have over 300 million of net cash and deposits: our legacy liabilities, excluding pensions, have reduced from 700 million to just 77 million: we have progressed from reporting an overall loss of nearly 1.5 billion in the year to 31 March 2003 to a net profit of 133 million: our market capitalisation has increased from 350 million in 2003 to around 1.6 billion today: we have reached a position where we are now able to pay a dividend for the first time since 2003: and we have rejoined the FTSE 100 Index, in June 2008, Your company has had another good and have been reclassified as a technology company, year despite the difficult economic recognising the significant change in our businesses during recent years.
conditions that have affected the global economy.
It is with some sadness that I have to note that our shareholders have lost some of the value of their investment in Invensys in recent times, although most of this has been mirrored by the declines shown by many companies in our sector: overall our relative performance has been in line with our peer group.
I would like to pay tribute to everyone who has been at Invensys during my time as Chairman, particularly Ulf Henriksson and my other Board colleagues, without whom the Invensys recovery could not have happened.
The Board and our people I am delighted that Sir Nigel Rudd, who became a director and Deputy Chairman on 1 January 2009, will be taking over from me as Chairman after the AGM.
Sir Nigel has a long and distinguished industrial career, and is currently Chairman of BAA and Pendragon and a non-executive director of BAE Systems and Sappi.
His previous chairmanships include Alliance Boots, Pilkington, Williams Holdings and Kidde, and he was also a director and Deputy Chairman of Barclays Bank.
8 | Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Steve Hare, who has been our Chief Financial Officer since Dividend 2006, informed the Board in November 2008 that he will The strength of the Groups financial position, our excellent be leaving Invensys at the end of May 2009 to pursue a new operational cash flow and the resilience being shown by challenge.
During his time with us, he has made a great our longer-cycle businesses within Invensys Operations contribution by achieving the strong financial position that Management and Invensys Rail has given the Board confidence we find ourselves in today, in particular in driving strong that this is the right time to pay a dividend to shareholders for operational cash flow from each of our businesses and the the first time since 2003.
However, in light of current global signing of our new five year banking facility in July 2008. economic conditions, the Board has decided to start at a On behalf of the whole Board, I would like to thank Steve prudent level which should allow a progressive dividend policy for his efforts and wish him every success in the future.
The Board has therefore recommended the payment of a final cash dividend for the year of 1.5p per share As previously announced, Wayne Edmunds, who is currently which, subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on CFO of Invensys Process Systems, will become our Chief 17 July 2009, will be paid on 7 August 2009 to shareholders Financial Officer from 1 June 2009.
Wayne joined the Group on the register at 26 June 2009. from Reuters America, where he had been SVP of Finance, and has previously held senior financial roles in the technology Outlook sector, including 17 years with Lucent Technologies.
Wayne Relative to the market, there is strength in demand for our is relocating to the UK and will work out of the Groups projects and solutions within our newly formed Invensys headquarters in London.
He has been working with Steve Hare Operations Management division, and Invensys Rail has been during the past two months to ensure a smooth handover successful in both its core and export markets.
This gives us of responsibilities.
confidence that both will continue to perform well during the current financial year.
Invensys Controls faces continued Jean-Claude Guez, who has been a non-executive director weakness in its markets and we continue to manage it for since 2003, will not be seeking re-election at the AGM and positive cash flow.
will be retiring from the Board at the end of that meeting.
It has been a pleasure working with Jean-Claude over the Our strong financial position is enabling us to take further past six years and I am very grateful to him for his significant actions in the current year to protect profitability and cash flow contributions and support during this time.
We all wish him across the Group and, based upon our current expectations, well in the future.
we anticipate that restructuring charges in the current year will be around 65 million.
Dr Martin Read, formerly Chief Executive of LogicaCMG, and Francesco Caio, formerly Chief Executive of Cable & Wireless, Overall we look to the future with confidence and expect will be joining the Board as non-executive directors on 18 July to improve our performance in the current year.
I am delighted that Martin and Francesco have agreed to join the Board.
They each have enormous experience running large international enterprises and I know that they will contribute greatly to the next stage of Invensys development.
The result of these changes is that Invensys continues to have a strong and experienced Board with a good balance of executive and non-executive directors.
Martin Jay Chairman I would like to thank everyone at Invensys for their efforts during the past year.
Many have had to deal with difficult markets which have posed additional challenges, and they have met these with considerable enthusiasm and expertise.
Invensys plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2009 | 9
