Chairmans statement AMEC is not a company which rests on its laurels.
This We will measure our success against our new financial is the third year in a row that we have achieved record goal to achieve earnings per share of over 100 pence results, with adjusted profit before tax of 215.6 million in 2015. in 2009.
Our EBITA margin of 8.2 per cent was our At AMEC, we believe firmly that it is not just what you highest to date.
do that matters: it is how you do it.
In late 2006, we articulated our vision very proud to be acknowledged as one of the top for AMECs long-term success to be a leading 10 employers in Canada Financial Post.
We not only supplier of consultancy, engineering and project retained our position in the Dow Jones Sustainability management services to the worlds energy, power Index, but were ranked as sector leaders in Oil and process industries.
We spoke of what we wanted Equipment and Services.
We are internationally to achieve by the end of 2010 and set targets for the recognised for our award-winning, innovative margin improvement we expected as a result of our pre-graduate programme in Kazakhstan.
Since then, we have made enormous progress won numerous awards for our health and safety in creating a company with a sustainable future and performance and our employees continue to be actively in early December 2009, we spoke for the first time engaged with their local communities.
AMECs of the next phase of our journey our Vision 2015. charitable contributions of 540,000 were largely spent matching our employees own efforts.
Going forward, We have refined our vision to be more explicit on we will look to track, and report on, the time invested the areas in which we can add most value to our in such activities.
customers and now see AMEC focusing on the worlds natural resources, nuclear, clean energy, water Simon Thompson and Neil Bruce were appointed and environmental sectors.
Importantly, we want as Non-Executive Director and Executive Director to increase our focus on growth assured growth respectively on 21 January 2009 and have proved to while continuing to make improvements in margin.
be valuable additions to the board.
Tim Faithfull was appointed Senior Non Executive Director in May 2009, To achieve this growth, we will be enhancing our following Liz Aireys retirement from the board after capabilities and our geographic coverage.
In Natural three terms of office, during which time she made a Resources, there will be additional focus on deepwater considerable contribution to the company.
projects, asset support and dutyholder positions: subsea and pipeline engineering: and a move into The world shows signs of recovery but the outlook underground mining.
In Power & Process, we will remains uncertain.
AMEC and its 21,000 people know expand what we are doing in nuclear, transmission where they want to go and how they want to get there, and distribution and renewable energy.
For Earth & right through to 2015.
Their hard work so far has Environmental, there will be an increased focus on delivered so much and deserves commendation.
In addition, I am confident they will continue to deliver.
we want to increase our presence in selected regions Jock Green-Armytage of the world Australasia, Latin America and the Chairman Middle East while continuing to grow in our historic heartlands of Europe and North America, as well as 4 March 2010 in Africa.
We see acquisitions as the most attractive use for our cash and will continue to pursue a progressive dividend policy.
4 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009
