ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 02 Chairmans statement Future challenges Dear Shareholder Against this recent context, it is clear that ITV now faces an I am delighted to have joined ITV as Chairman on 1 January imperative for change.
Whilst the business faces many difficult challenges, it fuelled television model will see long-term decline in share of remains an exciting place to work with a unique role in national viewing and share of UK media revenues.
Its revitalisation is important, not just to shareholders, shareholder value, we need to ensure we use the extraordinary but to millions of viewers across the country.
My objective is to talent base of ITV to compete, not only in conventional work with the executive team to transform the Company so as broadcasting, but also as a developer and exploiter of content to enable it to prosper in a rapidly changing media landscape.
across multiple platforms in the UK and internationally.
Seizing the opportunities ahead will require changes to ITVs Progress in 2009 organisation, systems, people and culture.
ITV came through a very challenging year in 2009.
Not only was it the worst television advertising recession on record, Our first challenge will be to sustain the creative and commercial but the difficulties of the leadership succession provided a health of our free-to-air broadcast business.
In doing so, we face distracting context for the business and the executive team.
intense competition from the BBC, whose taxpayer-funded revenue has been unaffected by the economic downturn, and Against this background, ITV delivered a remarkably resilient from BSkyB, whose satellite platform continues to grow and, performance, very much as a result of decisive management as it does so, erode the share of traditional free-to-air viewing.
action to reduce costs and strengthen the balance sheet.
As a consequence, the business avoided a serious liquidity The rapid development of digital media means that the British crisis and EBITA before exceptional items fell only marginally.
public will increasingly view television through the internet, via Adjusted cash flow increased by 200 million and net debt internet-enabled television, personal computers and mobile reduced by over 100 million.
ITVs debt repayments have devices.
ITV currently has a small share of online video, lagging been rescheduled and its pension scheme liabilities have behind our competitors.
Furthermore new competitors, such been stabilised.
In the light of the continuing economic as Google, are strongly positioned to play a leading role, uncertainty, the Board is not proposing payment of a final potentially displacing broadcasters as the initial point of access.
However, financially we now have a more stable As the market for content globalises and rights ownership platform from which to address the challenges ahead.
becomes a more important part of the value chain, the In response to the advertising downturn, the programme integrated broadcaster-producer model should be a source budget was cut by over 100 million.
Nonetheless, ITV ended of competitive advantage.
However, ITV Studios, our content the year with a strong schedule performance.
Although ITV1 creation and distribution business, has lost market share, continued to lose audience share, the ITV channel family held both within ITV and the wider UK market, partly as a result of its share overall.
There were some significant programming reduced internal commissions.
Restoring growth at ITV Studios successes, notably The X Factor, but also Law & Order: UK, and reinvesting in talent is a vital part of our future.
Whitechapel, Dancing on Ice, and Britains Got Talent.
Finally, despite successive reviews by the Government and Both our valuable long-running soaps, Coronation Street Ofcom, ITV remains one of Britains most heavily regulated and Emmerdale, remain in good health.
Consequently our freedom to operate is severely success is critical to sustaining ITVs share of the free-to-air limited, in particular compared to our new media competitors.
The adverse impact on the profitability of all free-to-air Our content business, ITV Studios, held profits, with increased broadcasters is resulting in declining investment in UK content international production offsetting a decline in the UK business.
with serious implications for Britains creative industries.
Internal ITV commissions in particular came under some pressure, as the ITV1 programming budget was reduced.
Nevertheless, ITV Studios is making progress with its third party business and remains a hive of creative talent.
Overall therefore, ITV has weathered the storm.
The business has a manageable balance sheet, a strong brand and a talented broadcasting and creative team.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2009 Chairmans statement 03 Archie Norman Chairman Platform for change Outlook The task therefore for the new management team at ITV is to In my short time at ITV, I have met many highly talented take advantage of the opportunity last years changes have people at all levels of the organisation.
There is a shared created and to address resolutely the challenges ahead.
I am recognition that the business will need to change substantially therefore delighted that Adam Crozier will be joining from going forward if we are to return to sustained growth.
In the Royal Mail Group as Chief Executive shortly.
Adam has an coming months we will outline in more detail the outcome outstanding track record of transformational management, of our current strategic review and the journey ahead.
has worked successfully with creative and media talent, and Whilst this new phase in the development of ITV is going has long experience of dealing with regulators and government.
to be a challenging one, we enter it with a vibrant pipeline of programmes, a very strong brand and a talented team.
As we embark on this journey, we inherit a platform for Ours is a people business and, with the right people, culture, change created out of the fire of recession by my predecessor, motivation and leadership, the future of ITV will lie in our Michael Grade, and by John Cresswell, the Interim Chief own hands.
Michael has been an iconic figure at the helm of ITV and handed over a business with a spring once more in its step.
He arrived at a very difficult time for ITV and leaves a business strengthened in many respects.
Throughout, John Cresswell has provided calm and strong leadership.
We are grateful to them both.
Archie Norman Since my arrival we have moved to streamline the Board to prepare for the journey ahead and to create a strong and very engaged team.
As a result some very distinguished non-executive directors have stood down.
These include our Deputy Chairman, Sir George Russell, who made a substantial contribution to ITV from the days of the merger.
Sir James Crosby played an important role as ITVs Senior Independent Director, a position which has now been taken on by Mike Clasper.
Agns Touraine and Heather Killen also stood down from the Board towards the end of the year.
I would like to thank them all for their contribution.
Adam Crozier Adam Crozier will join ITV as Chief Executive on 26 April 2010.
Adam joins ITV from Royal Mail Group, where he has been Group Chief Executive since 2003, leading the modernisation of the group, transforming it from a heavily loss making position to pro tability and reducing the cost base by 1.5 billion.
From 2000 to 2002, Adam was Chief Executive at The Football Association.
During his time at the FA, turnover doubled and nancing for the new Wembley Stadium was secured.
Between 1995 and 1999, Adam was Joint Chief Executive of Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising, which he had joined in 1988.
Adam is a non-executive director of Debenhams plc: a non-executive director of Camelot Group plc: and Chairman of the Employers Forum for Disability.
Adam Crozier is 46 and holds a BA in Business Organisation from Heriot Watt University.
