Chairmans statement and operating review I am pleased to report a record year for Record sales, profits the company in sales, profit before tax and exceptional items and free cash flow.
before tax and The company was founded in 1979 and this is the 26th year since incorporation in 1983.
The table below outlines some key exceptional items and indicators of our performance during that period.
As this demonstrates, earnings per free cash flow.
share have grown by an average of 18.3% per annum, since our flotation in 1992, and free cash flow per share by an average of 22.9%.
Free cash flow per share excludes dividends paid which were included in 1.
Where appropriate, the EPS, as disclosed in the statutory accounts, have the free cash flow calculations in the reported accounts for the financial been recalculated to take account of share splits, the issue of new shares and years 19952000. capitalisation issues.
The above table has not been audited.
2 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Chairmans statement and operating review Like-for-like sales in the year under review increased by schemes and payments of tax and interest, increased by 1.2%, with total sales, including new pubs, increasing by 28.1 million to 99.5 million 2008: 71.4 million.
Operating profit before exceptional items increased by 7.2% to 97.0 million 2008: 90.5 million Property and, after exceptional items, decreased by 13.9% to The company opened 39 pubs during the year, 13 of 75.1 million 2008: 87.2 million.
Profit before tax and which were freehold, disposed of one pub and closed one exceptional items increased by 13.6% to 66.2 million other, resulting in a total estate of 731 pubs.
In contrast 2008: 58.2 million and, after exceptional items, with previous years, most new openings were of existing decreased by 16.9% to 45.0 million 2008: 54.2 million.
pubs, with rents and development costs being lower than Earnings per share before exceptional items increased by historic trends.
The average development cost for a new 18.1% to 32.6p 2008: 27.6p and after exceptional pub excluding the cost of freeholds, in the year under items decreased by 27.8% to 18.2p 2008: 25.2p.
review, was 0.85 million, compared with 1.5 million a year ago.
The full-year depreciation charge was The operating margin, before exceptional items, interest 45.1 million 2008: 45.1 million, and we currently and tax, increased to 10.2% 2008: 10.0%, with expect next year to be a similar amount, assuming the increases in energy, excise duty and labour costs being same level of capital spend.
offset by reduced energy consumption, lower staff turnover and better buying, in several areas.
The In the year ending July 2010, we intend to open operating margin after exceptional items decreased to approximately the same number of pubs as in the 7.9% 2008: 9.6%.
Net interest was covered 3.1 times by operating profit Dividends before exceptional items 2008: 2.8 times and 2.4 times As previously outlined in the interim accounts, the board by operating profit after exceptional items 2008: 2.7 times.
has decided not to pay a final dividend for the year under Total capital investment was 48.8 million in the period review, in order to redirect our cash flow towards 2008: 60.9 million, with 37.8 million on new pub debt reduction.
openings 2008: 48.6 million and 11.0 million in current pubs 2008: 12.3 million.
Taxation The overall tax charge on pre-exceptional items is Exceptional items before tax totalled 21.1 million 31.7% 2008: 33.0% on a comparable basis adjusted 2008: 4.1 million.
These related mainly to the for exceptional items.
This rate is 0.5% lower than the impairment of trading pub assets of 6.5 million rate shown in our interim results, owing to a lower-than- 2008: nil, the disposal of properties which we no longer expected amount of non-qualifying depreciation.
The intend to develop of 4.4 million 2008: 1.2 million, a standard UK tax rate is 28.0% 2008: 29.3% and the one-off depreciation adjustment, following a review of difference between that rate and the company tax our fixed-asset register, of 9.4 million 2008: nil and charge remains at 3.7% 2008: 3.7%, primarily due to major litigation costs, involving legal action against our the level of non-qualifying depreciation: this is partially former estate agents, Van fide Berg, of 1.6 million offset by the deduction available for share-based 2008: 1.1 million.
Free cash flow, after capital investment of 11.0 million in The current tax rate has fallen from the estimated 34.7% current pubs, 6.0 million in respect of share purchases at the interim results to 32.4% 2008: 32.9% on a for employees under the companys share-based payment comparable basis adjusted for exceptional items.
Staff from Wetherspoons pubs and No.
1 in the Good Beer head office raised a record 171,000 Guide 2009 for CLIC Sargent after competing Wetherspoon had a record in the annual Kick for CLIC Sargent 173 pubs listed in the football tournament.
Campaign for Real Ales CAMRA Good Beer Guide 2009.
World wine record Wetherspoons chief operating officer, Paul Male and female staff at The Golden Lion, Harbottle pictured centre, cuts the ribbon in Rochester, Kent, raised a total of 450 We are the Guinness World to officially open the companys 700th pub.
for charity by dressing up in outrageous Record holder for the pink outfits.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 3 Chairmans statement and operating review This is largely due to the 2009 Budget announcement We continue to advance in the area of traditional ales, a which introduced accelerated current tax relief via 40% product unique to pubs, and have seen an uplift of 17% in first-year allowances, up from 20%, on eligible capital the year.
We stock over 600 guest beers throughout the expenditure incurred during the year ended 31 March 2010. year, from a wide selection of microbrewers.
Over 96% of our estate is Cask Marque accredited and we currently Financing have 193 pubs recommended in the CAMRA Good Beer As at 26 July 2009, the companys total net borrowings Guide 2010 Good Beer Guide 2009: 173 pubs an uplift were 388.2 million 2008: 439.6 million, a reduction of 12%, more than any substantial pub company.
Net borrowings have declined, the biggest real-ale festival in the world, during April 2009, notwithstanding 39 new pub openings costing selling 3.3 million pints over 20 days an increase in like- 37.8 million and the payment of last years final for-like volumes of over 17%, compared with the same dividend of 10.4 million.
Year-end net-debt-to-EBITDA festival in 2008. has fallen to 2.73 times 2008: 3.35 times.
We are the only substantial pub company which opens all Total facilities have increased since the interim statements pubs for breakfast, selling over 715,000 breakfasts and to 542.2 million, following agreement on a new banking coffees each week more than most coffee shop chains.
facility of 20 million from Santander.
We continue to be the worlds number-one seller of Tierra Lavazzas  sustainable coffee.
As previously indicated, the company intends to repay its US$140-million 87-million senior loan notes, due for This combination of bar, food and coffee sales helps to renewal in September 2009, from cash flow and ensure that pubs are busy throughout much of the week, remaining facilities.
At the balance sheet date, maximising profits and employment opportunities, as well 310 million 2008: 395 million was drawn under the as generating volume growth for many of our suppliers.
435-million revolving-loan facilities including the Santander facility.
Corporate responsibility The company is the largest single fund-raiser for the The companys main 435-million revolving facilities CLIC Sargent charity Caring for Children with Cancer, expire in December 2010.
The company has one of the a partnership now in its seventh consecutive year, lowest net-debt-to-EBITDA ratios in the listed pub sector: raising 2.6 million to date, with a pledge to raise a this, combined with our strong free cash flow and further 500,000 each year.
During the last financial year, improving financial performance, provides a sound basis, company employees and customers raised 532,875. we believe, for refinancing at the end of the next calendar year.
In 2009, the company has been included in the FTSE4Good index for the eighth time.
This identifies We continue to anticipate commencing formal discussions companies which meet globally recognised corporate by the end of this calendar year.
responsibility standards, including environmental sustainability, as well as upholding and supporting Further progress universal human rights.
As indicated in previous years, our approach remains one of trying to make lots of small improvements in diverse The company continues to concentrate on the energyareas of the business, creating momentum in the services efficiency of our pubs.
Last year, we achieved an 11% and facilities offered to customers, as well as sales and volume reduction in energy consumption, following the profits for the company.
installation of smart meters and a review of our operating practices.
Historic hotel fit for a duke The latest Wetherspoon hotel opened on 16 February in the delightful and popular 11,000 seaside town of Minehead, in Somerset.
Named after a local and national hero, The Each year, we recycle over Duke of Wellington, this historic inn is full of 11,000 tonnes of cans, cardboard, character and set to enjoy a new future glass, oil and plastic.
Police and pub promote Lawrence champions ale festival safer environments Former England rugby captain and World Cup The Greyhound pub, in Maidenhead, was winner Lawrence Dallaglio pulls a pint of chosen for the launch of an initiative, in the Greene King IPA with deputy manager Kate town, to counteract drugs.
A joint project Chalkley at The Crosse Keys, in Londons City among licensing officers, the council and area.
Mr Dallaglio, the Suffolk-based brewerys police is aimed at combating drugs in official ambassador, was at the pub to support licensed premises.
4 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Chairmans statement and operating review delegates, and promoted over 600 bar and kitchen staff Staff retention is at our to management positions.
We have won many training awards over the years: in January 2009, we were highest-ever level, with pub awarded three further National Innkeeping Training Awards, from the British Institute of Innkeeping, including the Best Training Programme in Managed Estates.
managers averaging over The company has also been recognised as an eight years service, giving Age Positive employer, by the Department for Work and Pensions, and recognised by the Corporate Research us, we believe, an Foundation, in association with the Guardian newspaper, as one of Britains Top Employers, for six consecutive years, including 2009. advantage in our business.
In August 2009, we were awarded a funding contract with the Learning and Skills Council to offer a Level 2 The company aims to reduce the amount of waste which Apprenticeship and Skills for Life qualification numeracy it sends to landfill and other disposal sites, through a and literacy.
Over the next year or so, these qualifications combination of packaging reduction and waste-productwill be made available to all employees.
As part of this recycling.
We recycle ordinary materials, generated as a process, the company has signed the Skills Pledge a consequence of our daily business, such as aluminium voluntary public commitment, made by the company, to cans, cooking oil, glass and paper.
During the financial develop the skills of employees and support their working year, the company recycled 11,790 tonnes of waste, towards nationally recognised qualifications.
including 20 tonnes of aluminium, 3,333 tonnes of cardboard, 1,750 tonnes of cooking oil, 414 tonnes of In addition, the Advanced Diploma in Leisure Retail paper, 231 tonnes of plastic and 42 tonnes of steel.
Management, run in conjunction with Leeds Metropolitan University, is offered to all pub and area managers at Glass-recycling will be a major focus for the current year.
Wetherspoon: to date, over one-third of all pub managers We generate over 30,000 tonnes of glass per annum.
We believe this diploma The company has joined forces with Biffa, our wasteto have been the first in-house programme in the licensed disposal partner, to roll out glass-recycling across the trade which allows employees to gain a professional estate.
We successfully recycled 6,000 tonnes of glass in qualification while working.
The programme was the year and aim to increase this to 75% of the glass extended to include a degree top-up, also in conjunction supplied to our pubs.
with Leeds Metropolitan University, offering an alternative to full-time study.
Personnel and training As always, the most important factors in successful pubs Staff retention is at our highest-ever level, with pub are the quality and motivation of those we employ.
The managers averaging over eight years service, giving us, company accordingly continues to believe that incentives we believe, an advantage in our business.
for managers and staff, combined with excellent training schemes, are vital for future success.
I would like to thank our employees, partners and suppliers, once again, for their excellent work in the In relation to training, the company held over 700 past year.
separate training courses in 2008, attended by 12,000 Pubs whispering gallery For the sixth year running, Conversations among customers carry at we featured in Britains Top The Berkeley, in Bristol thanks to the pubs 100 Employers handbook, whispering gallery.
It is believed to be one of published by the Guardian.
just a handful of pubs in the UK which have the distinctive feature.
A whispering gallery is described as a gallery beneath a dome or vault, in which whispers can be heard clearly from other parts of the building.
Marks art sets the local scene Over one-third of all pub managers have completed the Advanced Artist Mark Warner shows off one of his Diploma in Leisure Retail paintings Long Mynd towards Caer Management Licensed Retail.
It is one of four large paintings, on display at Montgomerys Tower, Shrewsbury.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 5 Chairmans statement and operating review Bonuses unsupervised drinking and directly contribute to many We continue to provide monthly bonuses for all of our pubs closure, at the same time exacerbating the problem pub staff, whatever their length of service.
In this of binge drinking.
connection, the company awarded bonuses and shares SIPs for employees of 20.5 million in the year, an It is to be hoped that future government policy will be increase of 25% 2008: 16.4 million.
More than 90% guided by a more pragmatic, and less doctrinaire, of the payments were made to employees below board approach, so that pubs retain their historic importance in level, with approximately 79% of payments made to the national social life.
employees working in our pubs.
Current trading and outlook Cash bonuses paid to pub managers and staff are based In the six weeks to 6 September 2009, like-for-like sales partly on service standards verified by mystery visits and increased by 1.2% and total sales by 5.8%.
partly on individual pub profits.
Head-office cash bonuses are based on profits before tax.
The cost outlook for the company is better than for some recent years, with a minimum wage increase of 1.2% due In addition, all employees at pubs and head office are in October 2009 and food cost inflation at lower levels.
eligible for free shares, subject to a qualifying period.
We have also agreed on improved buying prices in energy The free shares have replaced the share option scheme in which will, on current consumption levels, save 5 million recent years: since they are purchased by the company, in the financial year ended July 2010. these avoid dilution of current shareholders.
We will look to maintain those improvements made in the As well as free shares, directors and senior head-office year under review and, where sensible to do so, seek managers receive share awards based on the increase in further improvements.
owners earnings which, as explained in the remuneration report, are based on the cash profits As in the recessions of the early 1980s and 1990s, the of the business, rather than profit before tax.
company has traded well by concentrating on the key ingredients of standards, service, staff training and We believe this bonus system, which targets a wide incentives.
As a result of our strong cash flow, our variety of factors and is, for senior employees, based dedicated management team and our continuing efforts heavily on deferred share awards, to be more beneficial to improve the business, we remain confident of our than a system with more narrowly based targets, such as future prospects.
Tax and regulation For some years, the governments approach to concerns Tim Martin about excessive alcohol consumption has been to increase Chairman both taxes and regulations for pubs.
This has had the 11 September 2009 apparently desired effect of increasing the cost of drinking in pubs, compared with drinking at home or in public places.
Coincidentally, there has been a huge increase in off-trade sales of alcoholic drinks, combined with a decrease in sales volumes in pubs.
We believe that the net effect of this has been to increase levels of Wetherspoons two pubs in Dundee have won awards for the facilities and services which they offer to customers with disabilities.
Coffee boosts charitys coffers Union Rooms happy reunion highlights career opportunities We ran the biggest real-ale festival in Generous pensioners at The Wheatsheaf Inn, the world, during April 2009.
Kilmarnock, are raising money for various The Union Rooms, Newcastle, celebrated its charities, whenever they meet for a coffee.
10th birthday with a special reunion of four The group of ten meets regularly at the pub employees whose Wetherspoon career started for a coffee and a chat.
They have formed a at the pub.
The pubs current manager, group called Caffeine for Charity.
The group John Hudson pictured front, was joined by puts any change received, when they Guy Stoker, Jane Sexton, Anthony Buckley purchase a coffee, into a kitty.
and Richard Leith left to right.
