02 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Chairmans statement Rt Hon Lord Fraser of Carmyllie QC Chairman Following steady progress, we are positioned for growth.
2009 saw the Company perform in line with health, safety, environmental protection and expectations as we built on our strengths and community liaison HSEC and I am pleased to report passed a number of important milestones.
that during 2009 we achieved accreditation to OHSAS 18001 and began the accreditation process We continued to develop our production licences in to ISO 14001.
Ukraine, which remains our major focus for growth.
Importantly, we successfully completed our test Your Board programme for stimulation of our tight gas reservoirs This has been a year of stability for your Board, with as a precursor to the expanded drilling programme no changes.
I have been Chairman of JKX for just this year.
The connection to the Soyuz trunkline over 12 years.
It has been a period of exciting growth removed earlier delivery constraints and as a result and development during which your Companys gas production rose in the period to 50 MMcfd.
share and shareholder return performance has As forecast in last years statement, we began substantially exceeded those of the Oil and Gas production in Hungary, and in Russia we initiated the Sector in particular and the FTSE 250 index as a well workover programme which generated excellent whole.
Your Company is in excellent shape to meet initial results.
Workovers on our Russian project are the challenges of the future and I have decided that continuing through 2010 leading to field start-up by this is the appropriate point at which to hand my the end of the year.
We maintain our positive view on responsibilities on and have initiated the search for the project and its potential.
Gas prices in both Ukraine and Russia continued to Dividend converge towards European net back levels during The Board is pleased to report the continuation of the period.
Although Russian gas prices rose by our progressive dividend policy with the some 15%, they have not increased as fast as recommendation of a 4% increase in the dividend anticipated and we currently expect net back parity over 2009.
The Company paid an interim dividend of to be achieved by 2015.
Net back parity is expected to 2.3 pence per share on 16th October 2009, and the be achieved in Ukraine during 2010.
Board is now recommending a final dividend of 2.7 pence, bringing the total dividend for 2009 to Our HSEC commitment 5.0 pence per share 2008: 4.8 pence per share.
Protecting our people, the environment and the The dividend will be paid on 11th June 2010 to communities where we operate is of paramount shareholders who are on the Companys Register of importance.
Every year we set stretch targets for our Members at the close of business on 23rd April 2010.
Our Chief Russia and initiation of production in Hungary are Executive outlines the strategies that will deliver this underpinned by a solid year of production in Ukraine.
significant leap forward in his review.
These have combined to strengthen our confidence I would like to thank all our staff for their hard work, in the potential of our asset portfolio.
as it is their expertise, commitment and enthusiasm In particular, the achievements of 2009 laid the that places us at this important stage of the foundation for the successful share placing in early Companys development.
Equally, I wish to pay 2010, which raised in excess of $60 million.
These tribute to our shareholders for their continued funds will allow us to more than double our capital support of the Company.
