06 Keller Group plc Chairmans statement In 2010 we celebrate 150 years of services to the construction industry.
Whilst much has changed, our belief in innovation and engineering excellence have remained constant.
We are proud of our past and excited about our future.
Johann Established UK Expansion into Acquired Management Group revenue Acquired Case Group revenue Acquired Keller in ground test a UK national Hayward Baker buyout from exceeded 100m US exceeded 200m Johann Keller in Germany services part piling & ground US GKN plc Germany, of GKN plc improvement marking IPO on London company international Stock Exchange expansion Dr Michael West After more than 45 years service to Keller, Dr Michael West retired as Chairman in July 2009.
Having joined in 1964, Mike In my first statement to shareholders since becoming your led the management buyout Chairman, I am pleased to report a resilient set of results for 2009, of Keller in 1990 and the delivered against the most severe downturn in global construction Companys flotation in 1994, seen in my lifetime and the harsh trading environment that has becoming Chairman a year later.
ensued in many of our markets.
1 Following the flotation, he Results presided over the impressive Group revenue reduced by 13% to 1,037.9m 2008: 1,196.6m.
growth of the Group from a The operating margin, at 7.4%, was down from the previous business with revenues of just years excellent 10.0%, resulting in an operating profit of 77.3m under one hundred and fifty 2008: 119.4m.
Profit before tax was 74.7m 2008: 113.2m million pounds, to one turning and earnings per share were 78.8p 2008: 111.1p.
over in excess of one billion 2 pounds, with enviable margins.
Cash flow and net debt Cash generated from continuing operations was 123.2m Mikes pivotal role in the 2008: 143.5m, which represented 109% of EBITDA 2008: 99%.
creation and development This continued the Groups consistent track record of converting of the Keller Group has been profits into cash and reflects our strong focus on cash collection such that words cannot easily and the minimisation of working capital.
After significantly capture his part in its success.
reduced net capital expenditure of 35.5m 2008: 66.6m and Were it not for his far-sighted expenditure on acquisitions of 34.7m 2008: 14.1m, net debt vision and the courage, at the end of the year stood at 78.8m 2008: 84.6m.
determination and skill to turn the vision into reality, the Keller The Group has significant committed facilities and we are Group would not exist today.
operating well within all the associated financial covenants.
He has left behind a very Dividends strong legacy for which, The Board has declared a second interim dividend of 14.5p on behalf of shareholders, per share in lieu of a final dividend 2008 final: 13.8p per share.
the Board and employees, This, together with the first interim dividend paid of 7.25p, brings I thank him.
the total dividend for the year to 21.75p, an increase of 5% on the previous years 20.7p.
Dividend cover for the year is 3.6 times 2008: 5.4 times.
The second interim dividend will be paid on 1 April 2010 to shareholders on the register at 12 March 2010.
06 Acquired Phi UK Acquired Piling Contractors Australia Acquired Anderson Drilling US Keller Group plc 07 01 02 05 07 08 09 2010 Acquired Acquired McKinney Acquired Acquired Systems Acquired Olden Acquired Suncoast US US Donaldson US Geotechnique UK US Resource 150 leading postHoldings years of service tension cable Singapore Acquired 51% Acquired HJ Acquired Boreta company of Keller-Terra Foundation US Czech Republic Spain Group revenue Group revenue exceeded 1bn exceeded 500m This maintains our record of increasing the dividend each year and willingness to challenge, which he has combined with his since the Companys flotation in 1994. exceptionally supportive style.
These things, together with his experience and knowledge, will be missed by us all and Strategy I wish him well.
We remain focused on our strategy: to extend further our global leadership in specialist ground engineering through both organic It has been a most demanding year for the Group and for its growth and targeted acquisitions.
There are three key elements employees, throughout which they have demonstrated their to our strategy: continued support and commitment.
On behalf of shareholders and the Board, I would like to take this opportunity to thank transfer of technologies and methods within our current them for all their efforts.
geographic regions: expansion into new, higher growth geographic regions: and Outlook Clearly, 2010 will be another challenging year, not helped by theacquisition and development of new technologies and impact of the severe weather in the northern hemisphere in the methods.
first two months, which has greatly restricted our output.
As a Group, we have not yet seen a sustained upturn in orders and Key developments in 2009 in furtherance of this strategy included: this is reflected in our order book, which is 14% below the same acquiring Resource Holdings Limited in Singapore in October, time last year on a constant currency basis.
which brought critical mass to the Groups operations in South East Asia and added further momentum to our move into Looking to our markets, commercial construction in the heavy foundations in the region: developed world is likely to contract further, particularly in the US, which will increase the downward pressure on our margins.
strengthening our businesses through the deployment of more However, government spending in most parts of the world is people and equipment in India, Egypt and Algeria: and expected to remain at a relatively high level and we expect to extending our range of technologies in some of our more see some benefit from US stimulus spending in the second half.
established regions, such as the introduction of wick drains The underlying fundamentals in Australia and our developing in the US, pre-cast piles in Poland and the further expansion 3 markets remain strong.
of soil mixing in many regions.
The Group is in a very sound financial position, which we will Sustainability safeguard through our constant focus on cash generation and Over the past year, much of the Boards focus has inevitably been costs.
From this position of strength, we expect to continue to on cash generation and ensuring that our cost base remains grow in those markets which offer good opportunities.
In more aligned with our trading environment, both of which will remain mature markets, the actions taken to protect our profitability mean at the top of our agenda.
However, we have also concentrated that we will emerge from the downturn even stronger and ready on other issues which underpin the long-term health of the to seize the advantage, as these regions recover.
business, such as succession planning, health and safety and environmental management.
By developing common frameworks for these areas of management, which provide for a consistency Roy Franklin OBE of approach and aim to bring all our businesses up to the 2 March 2010 standard of the best, we are confident that we will build on our strong track record in these disciplines, to support the long-term sustainability of the Group.
People 1 2008 comparators relate to revenue, operating margin, operating profit, At the Annual General Meeting in May 2010, Dr Kevin Bond profit before tax and earnings per share from continuing operations.
will be retiring as a Director, following nine years service on the There were no discontinued operations in 2009.
2 Net debt is cash and short-term deposits less total loans and borrowings, Board.
Kevin has always brought an independent viewpoint as shown in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 Our markets in Eastern Europe, North Africa, the Middle East & Asia.
