The fundamentals of our markets remain attractive and we are well placed to capitalise on opportunities as these markets return to growth.
Nigel Keen Chairmans statement Strategy Our Employees Over recent years Laird has been transformed from We recognise that the expertise, professionalism a diversi ed industrial group to a focused electronics and dedication of our global team are critical to our and technology company.
We hold, or aim to hold, continued innovation and the achievement of our leading positions in specialist markets with long term objectives and we are grateful for their exibility in growth characteristics.
We possess a broad set of adjusting to the changing demands of our markets.
complementary proprietary products, obtaining a On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our competitive edge through technology and customer employees worldwide for their positive attitude and service allied to a well established low cost commitment during a challenging year.
Outlook Dividend Trading conditions proved to be very challenging in The Boards dividend policy is to increase returns to 2009 and against this background we took decisive shareholders over time, while taking account of both actions to reduce costs and align our operations to the underlying pro tability and cash requirements of the market environment.
We also strengthened Lairds the business.
balance sheet in the light of the uncertain conditions and the limited visibility of customer demand.
The Board believes that a 2009 full year dividend of 6.0 pence per share 2008, 10.31 pence, is at a level By the end of 2009 we had seen some recovery in which allows funding of growth opportunities while a number of our markets and this, together with the pursuing a progressive dividend policy.
The Board bene ts of our cost reductions, led to a signi cant is, accordingly, recommending a final dividend of improvement in underlying pro ts and operating 2.53 pence per share 2008, 6.84 pence.
margin in the second half of 2009.
Operating cash conversion was particularly strong in the year.
Corporate and Social Responsibility As a member of the FTSE4Good index, we recognise While the pro le of an economic recovery remains the need to balance our social and environmental uncertain, we have so far in 2010 seen a continuation of impacts in a manner that best serves the needs of all the trends experienced in the second half of 2009.
We are fully committed to continual have a sound financial structure, and we retain leading improvement in all areas of corporate responsibility.
positions in the majority of our markets.
We continue to Further details of the Groups corporate responsibility expand our customer base, to maintain our investment activities are available in the Corporate Social in engineering and new product development, and to Responsibility section of this report.
focus on operational excellence and customer service.
We believe that the fundamentals of our markets remain attractive, and that we are well placed to capitalise on opportunities as these markets return to growth.
