2009 was a challenging year for the Chairmans Company with unprecedented trading conditions around the globe.
Statement Despite these conditions and increased Jonathan Silver, Chairman competition, Lamprell was able to achieve solid financial results at the same time as continuing to position itself, through capacity expansion, operating efficiencies and a wider service offering, for the many opportunities that the changing economic and industrial environment will bring.
As the start of 2010 has already demonstrated, Lamprell is well placed to harness these opportunities.
Lamprell generated revenue in 2009 of USD 426 million, adjusted net profit of USD 28 million and fully diluted and adjusted earnings per share of 14.20 cents.
Given the challenging market conditions and the dramatic reduction of credit in Lamprells operating markets, these metrics represent a very solid performance for the year.
A landmark year Steven D. Lamprell, President A landmark year for Lamprell as the first Lamprell announces USD 320.4 three Engineering, Procurement and million of contract awards.
Contract Construction contracts delivered on time awards from Fred Olsen Windcarrier AS and on budget.
which in aggregate total USD 320.4 million.
Each Engineering, Procurement & Construction contract award from Windcarrier is for the design, construction and delivery of a Gusto MSC NG-9000 self elevating and self propelled offshore wind turbine installation vessel.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 04 Business overview In response to the challenging trading Offshore Freedom and the successful provided they were on the register on conditions that the Company experienced completion, for Seajacks, of two liftboats 14 May 2010. at the beginning of the year, the Board for wind turbine installation.
The latter has taken action to manage the project, in particular, marks the Companys I believe that the Board is well-equipped Companys finances prudently and to entry into an exciting new market with to meet the challenges that this volatile utilise the Companys flexible business encouraging growth potential.
and rapidly changing market presents model to control the cost base tightly.
and I am confident that Lamprells This has ensured the ongoing financial In May 2009 our COO Nigel McCue took reputation for quality, technical capability, health of the business.
Management have over as CEO from Peter Whitbread, who project execution and delivery, coupled focused much time and effort on has remained on the Board in the role as with the experience of Lamprells developing the Companys bid pipeline Director of International Development.
management and staff, will provide a and replenishing its order book.
We are Peter retires by rotation at the time of the strong platform for further successes seeing the fruits of those labours with AGM in June and has decided to retire in 2010. more than USD 3.7 billion of bids from the Company at that time and not outstanding at the year end and USD 420 offer himself for reappointment.
I would million of contracts awarded since then.
like to take this opportunity to thank Peter for the tremendous contribution that he Jonathan Silver The foundation for these awards remains has made to the Company over the years.
Chairman Lamprells reputation for high quality Lamprell plc project execution, which enables it to win I am pleased to announce that, having repeat business as well as attracting considered the current market conditions, major, new customers, as seen with the profit earned and cash generated during recent contract awards.
2009 saw the the year ended 31 December 2009, the completion of several significant projects Board is recommending a dividend of including the delivery, in April 2009, of the 3.80 cents per share.
If approved, this will Companys first new-build jackup rig, the be paid to shareholders on 16 June 2010 Lamprell delivers Seajacks Kraken Lamprell delivers newbuild jack up Lamprell delivers Seajacks the first self elevating, self propelled rig Offshore Freedom to owners Leviathan the second self elevating, Liftboat to Seajacks.
This is the first of Scorpion.
The delivery marks the first of self propelled Liftboat to Seajacks.
two harsh environment, new build two LeTourneau designed Super 116E Intended for use in harsh environment projects undertaken at our Jebel Ali facility.
rigs that Lamprell are contracted to conditions.
Both of the Seajacks vessels The Kraken was successfully delivered on deliver to Scorpion Offshore.
The rig has were detailed designed and constructed schedule in March 2009. a water depth operating capability of 350 by Lamprells to meet the strenuous feet and can drill to a depth of 30,000 Northern European Offshore feet, with luxury quarters for 110 crew.
Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 05
