Chairmans Letter Dear Shareholders, government.
In this context it is however inescapable that the economic realities imposed by metal pricing, currency Overview of the year exchange rates and general financial conditions none My first year as Chairman of Lonmin Plc has been an of which the Company can control can have profound eventful and challenging one.
The business has operated effects on the rate at which mutual aspirations can in an extremely difficult pricing and currency environment be realised.
with the average US Dollar basket price per PGM ounce Relations with our employees are of paramount sold some 49% lower than last year.
As a result, our importance, and we put on record our appreciation of revenues declined dramatically by over 50% or $1.2 billion.
the constructive behaviour of our employees, the trade The first signs that this revenue collapse was a unions, and indeed government, in the extensive and possibility occurred very early in the year and management painful restructuring exercise conducted in the early took immediate decisive action through the closure of months of the year.
Constructive engagement also forms unprofitable operations, the reduction of costs and the the basis of our current wage negotiations: industry restriction of capital expenditure.
This was followed by settlements to date have been in excess of inflation the strengthening of our funding position and then our despite the harsh revenue environment and lack of balance sheet to position us to weather the storm.
The long term health of the industry generally, Overall, under Ian Farmers leadership, the and Lonmin in particular, depends on an appropriate management team has made good progress in the drive balance being reached between increased wage awards, to restore the operational health of the business.
The productivity improvements and the imperative of strong focus on operational stability and discipline has profitability to enable the business to invest for growth brought increased rigour to the setting of targets and the and earn appropriate shareholder returns.
monitoring of performances against them.
It is pleasing Lonmin believes that it can, and should, operate as a to report that in the 2009 financial year we were largely zero-harm business and strives in every way to improve successful in delivering against our key targets: continuously its safety performance, acknowledging that Marikana platinum sales: were only 2% below our its business is inherently hazardous.
It is a matter of the target set at the start of the year: deepest regret that three employees lost their lives during Costs: Rand gross operating costs were lower than the year and I would like to convey our sincerest our original guidance as well as our updated and condolences to their families.
The very considerable more challenging guidance set in May 2009, and improvement in our safety performance achieved over crucially were lower than in the previous financial year: recent years slowed slightly in 2009, partly due to the Restructuring: we achieved $64 million of cost disruption to operations caused by the extensive savings in the second half of 2009 as a result of the restructuring exercise, which reduced employment levels restructuring programme, ahead of our initial by some 20%.
annualised target of $90 million: We support fully the attention paid by the Department Productivity and production: by the end of the year of Mineral Resources to enforcing improvement in the at our Mining business, Hossy and Saffy had both design and application of safety standards in the industry.
achieved their published productivity and production Our operations have been much affected during the year targets and we made good progress in restoring ore by this increased attention, and production stoppages as reserve development.
At our Process Division, a result of Section 54 safety notifications caused the loss monthly recoveries improved materially: and of some 30,000 Platinum ounces, or 5% of underground Balance sheet: capital expenditure for 2009 and year production, in 2009.
This is a high economic cost end net debt were both within market guidance.
specifically to the Company but no less to the nation, due to the reduction in foreign exchange and tax receipts.
While so much has been achieved in a short time, it There is an argument for the Department of Mineral was disappointing that difficulties were again experienced Resources to sponsor and lead a co-operative process with the Number One furnace, which was taken out of with PGM producers and organised labour to agree operation for a period towards the end of the financial procedures to achieve a consistent application of year and subsequently operated at reduced capacity.
monitoring measures and remedies, without jeopardising There is much to be done before the operational the pursuit of improved safety and reasonable economic health of Lonmin is fully restored.
This must however be returns.
achieved in conjunction with an increase in safe As it currently stands, Lonmin is a UK-domiciled production and an improvement in our position on the company with the vast majority of its operating assets in cost curve.
All efforts will be directed towards these South Africa.
Your Board has therefore concluded that achievements in 2010 and beyond in order to position the location of executive management should reflect this Lonmin to maximise benefit as the market recovers.
reality and accordingly has taken the decision to relocate our operational headquarters and executive management Rights Issue team from London to Johannesburg.
We believe that this A successful $458 million Rights Issue was completed will enhance day to day management and communications, in June 2009.
As a result, Lonmin now enjoys greater and performance improvements will flow from greater financial headroom, with enhanced balance sheet efficiencies.
The decision reflects our commitment to flexibility and an improved ability to withstand potential South Africa and our willingness to continue to play adverse movements in the PGM pricing environment a full part in the national transformation process.
and or the Rand US dollar exchange rate.
We are The Boards key functions of management oversight, grateful to our shareholders for their over-whelming strategic direction, decision making and corporate support for this fund raising.
governance will remain in London, where the majority of Lonmin in the South African landscape Lonmins shareholders are located.
Lonmin greatly values Our ability to operate effectively as an investor in South its UK domicile and primary listing in London and will Africa is a function of our behaviour as a responsible continue to maintain a Board with the blend of corporate citizen.
Lonmin embraces the tenets of the backgrounds, skills and experience required to provide Mining Charter and seeks in its actions to advance the effective leadership appropriate for a FTSE100 company.
transformation agenda prescribed by the South African 04 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information Roger Phillimore Chairman Sivis insights to the political and social dimensions of our South African business have been invaluable.
The Companys Chief Financial Officer, Alan Ferguson, has confirmed that he will not relocate to South Africa as part of the relocation of our operational headquarters and will therefore relinquish his position and resign from the Board at a future date.
Alan has committed to remain in his present role and continue as a Board Director until 31 December 2010 at the earliest.
We have commenced a recruitment process for Alans successor, who will be based in South Africa.
Outlook PGM markets are likely to improve gradually in 2010, supported by a slow steady recovery in the automotive and industrial sectors.
During that year, we anticipate that Marikana mined production will grow, enabling us to achieve sales of around 700,000 Platinum ounces.
We have the utmost confidence in the long term quality of In 2011, we expect to see the start of a more Lonmins asset base and the robust long term fundamentals significant upturn in PGM market demand, supported by increased momentum in the automotive and industrial of PGM markets.
sectors, with a more pronounced rebound in the following year.
In those years, we anticipate that our production will Roger Phillimore increase steadily through the delivery of profitable ounces so that, by 2013, we expect to produce sustainably around 850,000 ounces of Platinum per annum from Marikana, including the Pandora joint venture.
This anticipated production growth, and supporting capital investment, is subject to market conditions.
Current stresses notwithstanding, we have the utmost Incwala Resources confidence in the long term quality of Lonmins asset During the year, discussions commenced regarding the base and the robust long term fundamentals of PGM future of Incwala Resources Pty Ltd, Incwala, our Black markets.
Looking further ahead, our Akanani and Economic Empowerment partner.
These discussions are Limpopo properties will provide us with the optionality to on-going and involve Lonmin, the Historically Disadvantaged supplement our short to medium growth from Marikana.
South African HDSA shareholders of Incwala and the HDSAs providers of finance.
We will update the market Dividend on these discussions, once they have been fully Despite our confidence in the future and the measures concluded.
In pursuing these discussions, our objective is being taken by management to improve the health of the to ensure that Lonmin has a relationship of mutual trust business, our profitability and cash flows remain under with its partner and that its partner has both leadership pressure.
Consequently, given our continuing focus on capacity and financial independence without further cash conservation and balance sheet management, the recourse to Lonmins balance sheet.
Board continues to take a conservative but appropriate stance towards the distribution of dividends.
The Board Board Changes has therefore taken the decision not to declare a final At our 2009 AGM on 29 January 2009, Sir John Craven dividend for the 2009 financial year.
This follows the retired as a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Boards decision to pass the final dividend for the 2008 Board.
John was Chairman for some twelve years and financial year and the interim dividend for the 2009 we are extremely grateful to him for his ingenuity, strong financial year.
leadership and wise counsel which contributed so much The Board will keep the matter of dividend to the transformation of Lonmin from a highly-leveraged distributions under constant review and will resume diverse conglomerate into the third largest Platinum payments as soon as conditions allow.
Our policy producer in the world.
As a measure of this, it is remains that dividend distributions will be based on the noteworthy that despite the market upsets at the beginning reported earnings for the year, but take into account the of the year, the market capitalisation of Lonmin when he projected cash requirements of the business.
retired was some ten times greater than when he first joined the Board.
Employees We also bid a grateful farewell to Peter Godsoe who, Finally, I would like to thank all Lonmin employees for after nine years on the Board, has decided not to seek their commitment and dedication, without which the re-election as a director.
Lonmin has benefited important changes achieved during the year would not handsomely from Peters knowledge, experience and have been possible.
ability to identify the keystone of an issue and the logic of its resolution.
On 4 June 2009, the Board appointed Jonathan Leslie as a Non-executive director.
Jonathan has many years experience of the mining industry at both operational and executive levels, as well as a strong knowledge of the business landscape in South Africa.
Roger Phillimore On 16 October 2009, we announced that Dr Sivi Chairman Gounden had resigned as a Non-executive director, in light 13 November 2009 of the significant time commitments associated with his other business interests.
We are extremely grateful to Sivi for his contribution to the Company over the last four years.
