M&S p1 13. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:31 Page 12 12 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Governance overview by Sir David Michels, Deputy Chairman A strong Board In the event that internal succession is not A strong Board makes a significant difference an option, we will instigate a search and to a companys ability to create value.
As appoint a new Chief Executive during 2010.
Deputy Chairman I lead on all governance In this case, Stuart would again stay on to issues including the annual review of Board ensure a seamless transition before being and individual directors effectiveness, and replaced by an independent Chairman.
the implementation of a successful Voting at this years AGM succession strategy for the business.
You will have seen that the Local Authority A key task, given to me in my first few Pension Fund Forum LAPFF has filed a weeks as Deputy Chairman, was to recruit shareholder resolution.
Although LAPFF a new independent non-executive director.
continues to have confidence in Stuarts In October 2008 we appointed Jan du Plessis leadership and is not advising its members to that role.
He joins me and the other four to vote against his re-election, it is calling non-executive directors who are independent Sir David Michels Deputy Chairman for M&S to split the role of Chairman and and bring an external dimension to the Chief Executive, appointing an independent Board, drawing on their wide range of See pages 50 to 61 for the full Chairman by 2010. experience across industry sectors.
governance report The M&S Board is fully aware of its Succession timetable governance responsibilities and for that We have always said that our aim is to reason has always been transparent about develop a strong management team and the reasons for Stuart taking on the role of appoint a successor as Chief Executive Executive Chairman.
That was the genesis We remain strongly of the view that the of the decision the Board took in 2008, current combined role is the right choice when it concluded that it would be in the for M&S at this time, and that we have an best interests of the Company to retain appropriate succession timetable in place Sir Stuart Rose until 2011. to lead M&S through this challenging period.
If internal succession is appropriate, we For this reason we recommend that would expect to announce the appointment shareholders vote against the LAPFF of a new Chief Executive during 2010.
would then stay on for a suitable period to Please refer to the Notice of Meeting affect a smooth transition before we identify enclosed to read the LAPFF resolution an independent Chairman and revert to and our response, as well as full details recommended best practice.
Board of Directors Independent 12345 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee 1.
Sir Stuart Rose Chairman Appointed in May 2004. appointed interim Chairman with effect from 1 July 4.
Kate Bostock Executive Director, Clothing Age 60.
Stuart was appointed Executive Chairman in 2009.
David is a non-executive director of Strategic Appointed in March 2008.
He is a non-executive director of Land Hotels & Resorts and Jumeriah Group, Dubai.
Previously Kate was Product Securities plc and Chairman of Business in the He was previously senior independent director Director for Childrenswear at Next from 1994, before Community.
Stuart began his career in retail at Marks & of The British Land Company plc, non-executive joining Asda in 2001 as Product Director for the George Spencer in 1972 where he remained until 1989, before director of Arcadia Group and Chief Executive of Global Brand.
She was responsible for the launch of the going on to become the Chief Executive of a number of Hilton Group plc.
David was knighted in 2006. standalone George concept and the launch of the George well known UK retailers, including Argos plc, Booker plc brand globally.
Ian Dyson Group Finance and Operations Director Appointed in June 2005.
Steven Sharp Executive Director, Marketing 2.
Sir David Michels Deputy Chairman Spencer as Group Finance Director, becoming Group Appointed in November 2005.
Steven joined Chairman Appointed in March 2006.
Finance and Operations Director in March 2008.
Ian was Marks & Spencer in May 2004.
He is a non-executive David is Deputy Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination formerly Finance Director of The Rank Group plc.
Prior to director of Adnams plc and an elected member of the Committee and senior independent director.
He is senior this he was Group Financial Controller of Hilton Group plc.
Steven has previously been independent director of easyJet plc and has been Ian was a non-executive director of Misys plc until Marketing Director at Asda, the Burton Group, Booker plc September 2005. and Arcadia Group plc.
C n e G o e o i o t t r v a t G i r e p r e r m o n o n u u m a r p m n a o c e t C e R e M&S p1 13. qxd:Layout 1 29 5 09 11:31 Page 13 13 M&S Governance Leadership and governance go hand-in-hand in a successful company.
For both to work well you need a clear plan of what you want to achieve.
Following its 2008 09 performance review, the Board has agreed actions for 2009 10 within three Executive key areas to ensure our governance is robust and Committee continues to add value to Marks & Spencer: Business Customer 1.
An independent Board Continuity Insight Committee Unit Harness the experience and talent of the non-executive directors to invest in the business for the long term, so M&S is well placed when the market improves.
Chairman 1 executive Executive Directors 3 executive Information How We Do Deputy Chairman 1 independent M&S Security Business Non-Executive Directors 5 independent Committee Committee Board 2.
An informed Board Improve the depth and breadth of information given to the Board to facilitate robust decision-making during the economic downturn see diagram right.
A responsible Board Fire, Health Business and Safety Involvement Reinforce our brand reputation and stakeholder Committee Groups relationships for the long-term success of M&S through our brand values, Plan A and code of ethics.
Capital Our investors are rewarded with profitable returns Approval Committee Our customers experience Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust every time they shop with us Our employees are proud to work at M&S Our suppliers are engaged in profitable partnerships Our communities and the environment benefit from our sustainable business 6 78 910 11 6.
Martha Lane Fox Non-Executive Director 10.
Jan du Plessis Non-Executive Director Chairman Appointed in February 2006.
Martha is a nonAppointed in November 2008.
Jan is Chairman Jeremy is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is Chief executive director of Channel 4 Television and a Trustee of British American Tobacco plc.
He was appointed Executive of British Sky Broadcasting Plc, having been of the charity Reprieve.
She is founder and Chairman of Chairman of Rio Tinto plc in April 2009 having been a the Companys Chief Financial Officer.
Jeremy was Lucky Voice, and of her own grant giving foundation, non-executive director since September 2008.
Jan was previously Group Finance Director and Retail Finance Antigone.
Martha is also a director of mydeco.
a non-executive director of Lloyds Banking Group plc Director at Dixons Group plc.
She was a co-founder of lastminute.
He was previously Group Finance Director of the Swiss luxury goods group Richemont until 2004.
Louise Patten Non-Executive Director Appointed in July 2004.
Steven is Group CEO Chairman Appointed in February 2006.
Graham Oakley Group Secretary and Head of National Grid plc, having at different times been Louise is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
of Corporate Governance responsible for the UK Electricity and Gas businesses.
She is a senior adviser to Bain & Co, non-executive Appointed in August 1997.
Joined the M&S legal Previously, he held numerous senior positions with the Chairman of Brixton plc and a non-executive director department in 1985.
On 8 July 2009 he will retire and Exxon Group.
Steven has also developed business of Bradford & Bingley.
She was formerly a non-executive will be succeeded by Amanda Mellor, current Head of opportunities in countries such as China, Australia, director of Hilton Group plc, GUS plc, Somerfield plc Investor Relations.
