Introduction McBrides strategy has been consistently applied for several years Chairmans statement and the actions taken to drive performance and growth have also led to stronger financial results.
Return on capital employed is up to 17.1% and net debt has fallen sharply to 82.4 million.
The Private Label sectors grew share in all our markets across Europe.
McBride has led this growth through a focus on identified growth product categories, through category development in partnership with our customers and through innovation.
Our products deliver exceptional value for money, which is appreciated by todays value conscious consumers.
Importantly for the future, the experience after the previous recession showed that consumers stay loyal to Private Label products once they realise the performance is equivalent or superior to the branded offerings.
Innovation activity increased year-on-year, with a particular focus on Personal Care products and laundry liquids.
The identified growth categories of automatic dishwashing tablets, specialist cleaners, laundry liquids, air care and Personal Care continued to deliver higher revenue growth than the overall markets and the Group is well placed to target further acquisitions in these categories.
The actions we took to cut costs and increase efficiencies led to a restoration of profit margins to previous levels in the second half of the year.
At the same time we increased investment in New Product Development, purchasing and customer management activities as the Group continued to strengthen its business model and the proposition to our retail customers.
Our commitment to minimise the environmental impact of our operations is reflected in improvements in energy efficiency, waste and water consumption this year.
We were also pleased to be recognised for our progress by achieving a position in the FTSE4Good Index of the FTSE.
We are working with all our customers to agree formulation and packaging changes in order Our products deliver exceptional to meet our responsibilities in this area.
Further information is published in our annual Sustainability Report.
value for money, which is appreciated by todays value conscious consumers.
Iain J G Napier Chairman Frish toilet gel sticks The new Frish toilet gel cleaners offer an easy to use perfumed cleaner in the increasingly popular gel format for toilet cleaners.
McBride plc Directors report 06 Annual report and accounts 2009 Chairmans statement Being Passionate about Private Label is reflected not only in the Looking to the future improved performance of our results but also in our products Our strategy remains unchanged.
We are Europes leading themselves, where we always strive to offer the best quality price provider of Private Label Household and Personal Care products, trade-off available in the market.
with a focus on core growth categories, a rigorous pursuit of improved efficiencies and a commitment to provide the best Board possible performance and value.
In the past year we have continued A number of changes to the composition of the Board were to increase our scale and further strengthened our business model announced during the year.
Ian Johnson resigned with effect from to support our retail customers.
Our financial strength is valued by 30 April 2009 and Henri Talerman stepped down as a non-executive our customers, for whom we are a partner in driving their Private director at the October AGM.
Since the year-end we have decided to Label businesses.
appoint Richard Armitage to the Board as our new Finance Director commencing in November 2009.
We have made a good start to the new financial year, continuing the trend in the second half of last year.
Our markets remain highly People competitive but McBrides Private Label products continue to be I would like to personally thank all of our people for their exceptional relevant not only in the current environment but also in the longer contributions during another year when significant demands have term.
We have strengthened the business further in the last been made on them.
Our culture, people and teamworking practices 12 months and expect to consolidate these improvements in continue to provide a key part of our competitive advantage.
Results and dividend Revenues increased by 13% to 792.4 million 2008: 700.9m.
Profit after tax attributable to shareholders, before amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items, was 23.2 million 2008: 15.6m whilst, on the same basis, diluted earnings per share were 12.8 pence 2008: 8.6p.
At the year-end, net debt was 82.4 million 2008: 103.3m with continued delivery of positive operating cash flows and tight control over capital expenditures.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.3 pence per share 2008: 3.9p, giving a total dividend for the year of 6.0 pence 2008: 5.6p, up 7% year-on-year, and is covered 2.1 times by post-tax profit, before amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items, for the year 2008: 1.5 times.
Dividend per share pence 2009 6.0 2008 5.6 2007 5.6 2006 5.1 2005 4.8 Mens grooming Mens grooming products are one of the growth categories in Private Label Personal Care.
McBride plc Directors report 07 Annual report and accounts 2009 Chairmans statement The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents
