158 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc Report on the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Lloyds Banking Group plcs consolidated financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the parent companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the consolidated and parent company cash flow statements for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accountingpolicies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
Other than those disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the parent company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 350 million 2016: 325 million, based on 5 per cent of the 3 year average of adjusted profit before tax.
Statutory profits were adjusted to remove the effects of certain items which are exceptional and or one-off in nature.
Overall parent company materiality: 350 million 2016: 325 million, based on 1 per cent of total assets.
The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were determined by our risk assessment, the financial significance of components and other qualitative factors including history of misstatement through fraud or error.
We performed audit procedures over components considered financially significant in the context of the Group full scope audit or in the context of individual primary statement account balances audit of specific account balances.
We performed other procedures including testing entity level controls, information technology general controls and analytical review procedures to mitigate the risk of material misstatement in the residualcomponents.
The areas of focus for our audit which involved the greatest allocation of our resources and effort were: Loan loss impairment provisions Group Conduct risk and provisions Group Insurance actuarial assumptions Group Defined benefit obligation Group Hedge accounting Group and parent Significant transactions Group and parent Privileged access to IT systems Group and parent Disclosure of the impact of IFRS 9 Group These items were discussed with the Audit Committee as part of our audit plan communicated in April 2017 and updated in October 2017.
These were the key audit matters for discussion at the conclusion of our audit.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 159 The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industries in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and parent financial statements, including but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, the Prudential Regulation Authoritys regulations, the Pensions Regulator legislation, the UK tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with and reports to the regulators, enquiries of management, review of significant components auditors work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We found conduct risks and provisions to be a key audit matter, and this is discussed further below.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality 350 million 2016: 325 million.
How we determined it 5 per cent of the 3 year average of adjusted profit 1 per cent of total assets.
Profit was adjusted to remove the effects of certain items which are exceptional and or one off in nature.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have used a 3 year average of adjusted profit We have selected total assets as an appropriate before tax in order to reduce the potential for benchmark for parent company materiality.
Profit volatility and large changes in materiality year-onbased benchmarks are not considered appropriate year.
This is a generally accepted auditing practice.
for parent company materiality as the Group is not Statutory profits before tax for 2015, 2016 and 2017 required to disclose a parent company income were adjusted to remove the disproportionate impact statement.
Parent company overall materiality of several items which are considered exceptional calculated based on the total assets benchmark and or one-off in nature.
These adjustments included exceeds the Group overall materiality level.
Therefore charges related to PPI and other conduct provisions, parent company overall materiality is restricted to charges relating to redemptions of enhanced capital equal the Group overall materiality level 350m.
notes and the credit in relation to the Groups disposal of its stake in Visa Europe Ltd. For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 60 million and 120 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 20 million for the Group and parent company audits 2016: 20 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Groupoperates.
The Group is structured into three segments being Retail, Commercial Banking, and Insurance and Wealth.
Each of the segments comprises a number of components.
The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of the components.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that is required to be performed over the components by us, as the Group engagement team, or auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction component auditors.
Almost all of our audit work is undertaken by PwC UK component auditors.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
This included regular communication with the component auditors throughout the audit, the issuance of instructions, a review of the results of their work on the key audit matters and formal clearance meetings.
Any components which were considered individually financially significant in the context of the Groups consolidated financial statements defined as components which that represent more than or equal to 10% of the total assets of the consolidated Group were considered full scope components.
We considered the individual financial significance of other components in relation to primary statement account balances.
We considered the presence of any significant audit risks and other qualitative factors including history of misstatements through fraud or error.
Any component which was not already included as a full scope audit component but was identified as being individually financially significant in respect of one of more account balances was subject to specific audit procedures over those account balances.
Inconsequential components defined as components which did not represent a reasonable possibility of a risk of material misstatement either individually or in aggregate were eliminated from further consideration for specific audit procedures although they were subject to Group level analytical review procedures.
All remaining components which were neither inconsequential nor 160 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued individually financially significant were within our audit scope, with the risk of material misstatement mitigated through audit procedures including testing of entity level controls, information technology general controls and Group and component level analytical review procedures.
Certain account balances were audited centrally by the Group engagement team.
Components within the scope of our audit contributed 99 per cent of Group total assets and 94 per cent of profit after tax.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Loan loss impairment provisions We understood managements process and tested key controls around the determination of impairment provision, including: Group the identification of impairment events: Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Report, page173 Accounting Policies and page195 Note20 and Critical the governance over the impairment processes, including controls over unauthorised modifications Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
to the models and the re-assessment by management that impairment models are still calibrated in a way which is appropriate for the impairment risks in the Groups loan portfolios: The determination of impairment provisions is complex, and significant judgements are required around both the timing of the transfer of data between underlying source systems and the impairment models that the Group recognition of impairment provisions and estimation of the operates: and amount of provisions required in relation to loss events which the review, challenge and approval processes that are in place to assess the outputs of the Groups have occurred at the balance sheet date.
impairment models, and the overlays that are applied.
Impairment provisions relating to loans and advances in the Retail We found these key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, and therefore division are determined on a collective basis, with the use of determined that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes of our audit.
These models are used to calculate In addition we have performed the following substantive procedures: impairment provisions based on key assumptions for example loss emergence period, probability of default, loss given default Retail including possession propensity and forced sale discounts for We understood and critically assessed the appropriateness of models used.
This included challenging mortgages and valuation of recoveries.
These are estimated whether the portfolios were appropriately segmented and whether historical experience was based on historical experience and other data as available at the representative of current circumstances.
We also performed testing over the completeness and reporting date.
Management also applies overlays where they accuracy of data from underlying systems, assessed whether customer forbearance plans had been believe the calculated assumptions based on historical appropriately reflected in the impairment models and performed testing to obtain evidence over the experience are not appropriate, either due to emerging trends or existence and valuation of collateral.
the models not capturing the risks in the loan portfolio.
An We critically assessed the completeness of overlays proposed by management, including challenging example of this is an overlay to the impairment model output for whether risk concentrations e. g. past-term interest only loans, forborne loans, personal contract the UK mortgage portfolio relating to the current low interest rate purchase loans have been appropriately provided for.
We also performed testing over the environment.
These overlays require significant judgement and measurement of the overlays in place, including challenging the appropriateness of the calculation, are therefore a main area of focus.
the reasonableness of the assumptions used and the reliability of the underlying data.
Impairment provisions relating to loans and advances in the Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the methodologies, modelled assumptions, data Commercial Banking division are primarily determined on an used within the models and overlays to modelled outputs to be appropriate.
Judgement is required to determine when a loan is considered impaired, and then to estimate the expected future Commercial Banking cash flows related to that loan.
A collective provision is also We critically assessed the criteria for determining whether an impairment event had occurred and calculated to cover unidentified impairment i. e. losses which therefore whether there was a requirement to calculate an individual impairment provision.
We tested have been incurred but not yet identified.
Management apply a sample of performing loans with characteristics that might imply an impairment indicator existed overlays to the modelled output to address risks not captured by e. g. a customer experiencing financial difficulty or in breach of covenant as well as an additional the model.
haphazardly selected sample of performing loans to assess whether these loans had any impairment indicators that management had not identified.
For a sample of individually impaired loans, we understood the latest developments in relation to each case and the basis of measuring the impairment provisions and considered whether key judgments were appropriate given the borrowers circumstances.
We also re-performed managements impairment calculation, testing key inputs including the expected future cash flows, discount rates and the valuation of collateral held.
Our testing of collateral valuation specifically considered whether valuations were up to date, consistent with the strategy being followed in respect of the particular borrower and assessed the appropriateness and sensitivities of key assumptions.
We back-tested previous provisions by comparing them to the gains or losses crystallised when impaired loans were sold or exited.
For the collective unidentified impaired provision, we tested the completeness and accuracy of the underlying loan information used in the impairment models by agreeing details to the Groups source systems as well as re-performing the calculation of the modelled provision.
For the key inputs and assumptions in the model, we obtained and tested objective evidence that supported their appropriateness.
For overlays to the modelled output, we challenged management to provide objective evidence that the overlays were appropriate.
We also considered whether certain recent events and macro-economic factors e. g. continued volatility and uncertainty around commodity prices, sterling exchange rate movements and low interest rates had been appropriately considered and captured.
Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the methodologies, modelled assumptions, data used within the models and overlays to modelled outputs are appropriate.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 161 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Conduct risk and provisions We understood and tested the key controls and managements processes around: Group identifying emerging conduct risk exposures and assessing whether provisions or disclosures were necessary: and Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Report, page 173 Accounting Policies and page 213 Note 37 and Critical calculating and reviewing conduct provisions, including governance processes, challenge of key Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
assumptions and approval of provisions.
Provisions reflecting the Groups best estimate of present We found these controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively and therefore we obligations relating to anticipated customer redress payments, determined that we could place reliance on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
operational costs and regulatory fines as a result of past events, We performed the following procedures around the measurement of provisions recognised: practices and conduct continue to be significant and therefore The majority of our detailed audit work was on the significant conduct provisions in relation to past represent a key audit matter.
sales of PPI policies, arrears handling activities, packaged bank accounts and insurance products in The most significant provisions relate to past sales of payment the German branch of Clerical Medical Investment Group Ltd now Scottish Widows Ltd. We also protection insurance PPI policies, arrears handling activities, examined other conduct provisions which are individually less material.
packaged bank accounts and insurance products of the German For significant provisions made, we understood and challenged the provisioning methodologies and branch of Clerical Medical Investment Group Ltd now Scottish underlying assumptions used by management.
For example, we challenged the basis that Widows Ltd. management used for forecasting the number of PPI complaints that will be received in the future.
For the known issues that have been provided for, we focused on We considered regulatory developments and managements interactions with regulators.
the use of several management assumptions including volume of For those assumptions based on historic information, we challenged whether this was appropriate for future complaints and related redress costs that are key future experience and challenged the appropriateness of any adjustments made by management.
judgmental inputs into the measurement of provisions.
We independently performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions.
Given the number and volume of products sold by the Group Given the inherent uncertainty in the calculation of conduct provisions and their judgemental nature, historically, and the continued regulatory and public focus on the we evaluated the disclosures made in the financial statements.
In particular, we focused on banking industry, there is a continuing risk that new conduct challenging management around whether the disclosures were sufficiently clear in highlighting the issues will emerge.
Therefore, there is a financial reporting risk exposures that remain, significant uncertainties that exist in respect of the provisions and the that such emerging risks and exposures are not appropriately sensitivity of the provisions to changes in the underlying assumptions.
identified, for which financial statement disclosure and, or, provision may be required.
Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, we found managements assumptions to be appropriate.
We performed the following procedures around the completeness of provisions recognised: We met with Divisional and Group management to understand the emerging and potential issues that they had identified.
We independently assessed emerging and potential areas where exposures might have arisen based upon our knowledge and experience of emerging industry issues and the regulatory environment.
We used this to challenge the completeness of the issues identified by management and whether a provision was required.
We understood the nature of customer complaints received, and assessed the trends.
We used this analysis to understand whether there were indicators of more systemic issues being present for which provisions or disclosures may have needed to be made in the financial statements.
We reviewed the Groups litigation reports, to identify potentially material cases which may require provision.
We also communicated with the Groups external legal representatives to confirm our understanding of significant cases.
We reviewed the Groups correspondence with the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority, discussing the content of any correspondence considered to be pertinent to our audit with management.
We met on a trilateral basis with the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Chair of the Audit Committee.
We also met on a bilateral basis with each regulator.
We read the minutes of key governance meetings including those of the Board, and of variousmanagement committees, as well as attending all Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee meetings.
No additional material conduct issues that would require financial statement disclosure or provision were identified as a result of the audit work performed.
162 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Insurance actuarial assumptions We understood and tested key controls and governance around the processes for setting economic and non-economic assumptions.
We found that the key controls for the setting of assumptions, Group including those operating over the experience analysis data where applicable, were designed and Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Report, page173 operated effectively.
Therefore we are able to place reliance on these controls for the purposes of our Accounting Policies and pages 198,202 and205 Notes 24, 31,32 financial statement audit.
and Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
We engaged our actuarial specialists to assess the reasonableness of the actuarial assumptions, A number of subjective assumptions about future experience including the consideration and challenge of managements rationale for the judgements applied contribute as key inputs into the valuation of the Groups and any reliance placed on industry information.
The assessment includes reference to our benchmarking data which considers each of these principal Some of the economic and non-economic actuarial assumptions areas.
For persistency, we considered the appropriateness of assumptions set by management in used in valuing insurance contracts are highly judgemental in light of regulatory changes.
In particular, we considered how the assumptions reflect expected nature, in particular persistency the retention of policies over persistency improvements from the removal of commission for qualifying pension schemes and time, longevity the expectation of how long an annuity greater outflows of funds expected as a result of increased options available to pension policyholders policyholder will live and how that might change over time, Finance Act 2014. maintenance expenses future expenses incurred to maintain For longevity, we have assessed the appropriateness of how own experience and industry data are existing policies to maturity, credit default and illiquidity used in setting future assumptions around longevity experience and future longevity trends and premium adjustments made to the discount rate for the IFRS compared resulting life expectancies to benchmarking data.
value of in-force business asset.
For maintenance expenses, we assessed the appropriateness of the judgements around costs In line with the Groups accounting policy, the discount rate deemed to be non-attributable to insurance business and the resulting per-policy costs assumptions.
applied to cash flows is consistent with that applied to such cash We have reviewed the adjustments required reflecting the impact of the Groups outsourcing flows in the capital markets.
Management currently uses the agreement in this area.
actual asset mix as a proxy for deriving a market consistent view of the illiquidity adjustment to the discount rate.
For credit default and illiquidity premium we assessed the appropriateness of the methodology, including modifications made, against our knowledge and experience of the regulatory requirements and of the industry.
We assessed the methodology with reference to wider market practice and prevailing economic conditions.
We challenged whether the actual asset mix used in the illiquidity premium calculation remained an appropriate proxy to a market consistent portfolio by comparing the proportion of illiquid assets held to those held by other similar companies based on our understanding of the market and the most recent public information for other similar companies.
Defined benefit obligation We understood and tested key controls over the completeness and accuracy of data extracted and supplied to the Groups actuary, which is used in the valuation of the Groups defined benefit Group obligations.
We tested the controls for determining the actuarial assumptions and the approval of Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Report, page173 those assumptions by senior management.
We found the key controls were designed, implemented Accounting Policies and page206 Note35 and Critical and operated effectively, and therefore we determined that we could place reliance on these controls Accounting Estimates and Judgements.
for the purposes of our audit.
The retirement benefit schemes in the Group are calculated and We engaged our actuarial experts and met with management and their actuary to understand the valued with reference to a number of actuarial assumptions judgements made in determining key economic assumptions used in the calculation of the liability.
including discount rate, rate of inflation and mortality rates.
We assessed the reasonableness of those assumptions by comparing to our own As a result of the size of these schemes, small changes in  benchmarks and concluded that the assumptions used by managementwere appropriate.
theseassumptions can have a significant impact on the financialstatements.
We tested the consensus and employee data used in calculating the obligation.
Where material, we also considered the treatment of curtailments, settlements, past service costs and measurements, contributions and benefits paid, and any other amendments made to obligations during the year.
Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the data and assumptions used by management in the actuarial valuations for pension obligations are within a range we consider to be reasonable.
We read and assessed the disclosures made in the financial statements, including disclosures of the assumptions, and found them to be appropriate.
Hedge accounting We understood and tested key controls over the designation and ongoing management of hedge accounting relationships, including testing of hedge effectiveness as well as the controls around the Group and parent preparation and review of hedging strategy and related documentation prior to the implementation Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Report, page 173 of new hedges.
We found the key controls were designed, implemented and operated effectively, Accounting Policies, and page 240 Note 51. and therefore we determined that we could place reliance on these controls for the purposes of The Group enters into derivative contracts in order to manage ouraudit.
and hedge risks such as interest rate and foreign exchange rate We examined hedge documentation to assess whether the documentation complied with all IAS 39 risk.
These arrangements create accounting mismatches which requirements.
We tested key year-end reconciliations between underlying source systems and are addressed through hedge accounting, predominantly fair spreadsheets used to manage hedging models, including testing of hedging capacity after value hedge or cash flow hedges.
considering the impact of structural reform, designation of hedges and the measurement and recording of hedge effectiveness adjustments.
In monitoring hedging effectiveness against stresses, The application of hedge accounting and ensuring hedge effectiveness can be highly judgemental and operationally we noted that despite significant market uncertainty and volatility during the year, all significant hedge accounting relationships continued to be effective.
We tested a sample of manual adjustments cumbersome, and requires close monitoring from management.
posted to hedge reserves relating to hedge ineffectiveness arising in cash flow hedging models.
We found that hedge accounting methodology was appropriately applied.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 163 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Significant transactions We understood and tested key controls which require that one-off transactions are referred to Group Financial Reporting and that an accounting paper is produced outlining the treatment of the Group and parent transaction in the financial statements.
Further to this, we ensured that the accounting paper is Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Report.
We found the key controls were designed, implemented and During the year, the Group has entered into significant one-off operated effectively.
transactions that inherently have a high level of complexity and or We understood the nature of the significant transactions and reviewed the accounting papers judgment in its determination of accounting treatment produced in the year including any transaction documents or contracts to evaluate and assess the e. g. acquisition of MBNA.
This judgment increases the risk of impact of the transaction on the Group.
management bias being introduced into the transactions.
We made our own assessment as to the most appropriate accounting treatment, using this as a basis Due to the nature of significant one-off transactions, the to challenge the key judgements made by management, including the assessment of any potential accounting often falls outside of the business as usual process management bias.
level controls and requires manual calculations to be performed.
We assessed whether the extent of the disclosures made, in relation to significant transactions The design of the initial accounting treatment may form the basis wasappropriate.
for subsequent periods for long dated transactions.
Based on the results of the evidence obtained, we found the accounting treatments applied to significant transactions were supported by the evidence obtained.
Privileged access to IT systems We understood and tested key controls surrounding Group ITs central process for the periodic recertification of user access entitlements across in-scope systems as well as reviewed the processes Group and parent for managing privileged access to IT systems.
Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Report.
We have obtained an understanding of managements remediation programme and observed The Groups financial reporting processes are reliant on progress in terms of their remediation of a number of the control matters.
However, several of the automated processes and controls performed by IT systems.
controls continued to be ineffective for the full financial reporting period.
Further, the group-wide IT estate is complex in terms of the scale Where these control matters affected applications and supporting IT systems within the scope of our and nature of IT systems relied upon.
The risks associated with IT audit, we performed a combination of additional controls testing, including compensating controls are also impacted by the threat profile of IT within the banking where relevant and substantive audit procedures.
environment, which is subject to a number of internal and external risks relating to cyber security and the resilience of On the basis of our additional audit testing, we were able to place reliance on the data and reports ITsystems.
As part of the audit, we validate the design and operating effectiveness of in-scope automated and IT dependent controls over financial reporting at a point in time as well as review the supporting IT General Computer Controls ITGCs that provide assurance over the continued integrity of these controls for the full financial reporting period.
As part of our audit work in prior periods, we identified recurring control matters in relation to the management of IT privileged access to IT systems and therefore have relied on compensating controls and performed additional procedures.
While there is an ongoing programme of activities to address such control matters, the fact that these were open control matters during the period meant there was an increased risk that the data and reports from the affected systems were not reliable.
Disclosure of the impact of IFRS 9 We understood and tested key controls supporting managements estimate of the transition adjustment focusing on: Group model development, validation and approval to ensure compliance with IFRS 9 requirements: Refer to page 73 Audit Committee Report and page 253 Note54.
review and approval of key assumptions, judgements and forward looking information prior to use in the models: On 1 January 2018, the Group transitioned to financial instruments accounting standard IFRS 9 which replaced IAS 39. the integrity of data used as input to the models including the transfer of data between source The estimated transition impact is disclosed in Note 54 to the systems and the impairment models: Financial Statements in accordance with IAS 8.
Disclosures in 2017 review and approval of post model adjustments recorded by management: and are intended to provide users with an understanding of the review and approval of the output of IFRS 9 models and related transition impacts.
estimated impact of the new standard, and as a result are more limited than the disclosure to be included in the 2018 financial We noted the controls were designed and operated effectively, in all material respects.
We understood and critically assessed classification and measurement decisions and the ECL models We have deemed the disclosure of the impact of IFRS 9 for developed by the Group.
This included using our credit modelling experts in our assessment of impairment an area of focus because of the significant changes judgements and assumptions supporting the ECL requirements of the standard.
We re-performed introduced by the standard.
Under the new impairment model, certain model calculations to confirm the risk parameter outputs and the results were appropriate.
losses are recognised on an expected credit loss basis.
Expected We assessed the reasonableness of forward looking information incorporated into the impairment credit losses 'ECLs' are required to incorporate forward-looking calculations by using our experts and specialists to challenge the multiple economic scenarios chosen information, reflecting managements view of potential future and the weighting applied to capture non-linear losses.
The complexity involved requires We considered post-model adjustments in the context of key model and data limitations identified by management to develop new methodologies involving the use of management, challenged their rationale and recalculated where necessary.
We tested the underlying disclosures related to the transition impact and reconciled the disclosed Separately, the standard introduces new requirements around impact to underlying accounting records.
the classification and measurement of financial instruments, potentially resulting in fair value differences.
Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the methodologies, modelled assumptions, data used within the models, resulting outputs and overlays to modelled outputs are appropriate.
In order to meet the requirements of the new standard, significant changes have also been made to systems, processes and controls with effect from 1 January 2018.
164 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of Lloyds Banking Group plc continued Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent companys adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial ability to continue as a going concern.
statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In drawing this conclusion the directors have considered: the regulatory capital position of the Group which is critical to the market maintaining confidence in the Groups ability to absorb losses that it may incur in a market stress: and the funding and liquidity position of the Group to be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due, including in a market stress.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
In drawing our conclusion, we critically assessed the going concern assessment undertaken by management and approved by the Board of Directors.
As part of our assessment we have: evaluated the appropriateness of the stress scenarios used and their impact on the Groups and parent companys capital and liquidity positions: evaluated the key economic and other assumptions used in both the capital and liquidity plans and the Groups operating plan: and substantiated the Groups and parent companys access to unencumbered collateral placed with, and liquidity facilities available from, the central bank.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors report, we considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have beenincluded.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 83 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 82 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 165 Other code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 83, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 73 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 83, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the directors on 21 December 1995 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 1995 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 23 years, covering the years ended 31 December 1995 to 31 December 2017.
The audit was tendered in 2014 and we were re-appointed with effect from 1 January 2016.
There will be a mandatory rotation for the 2021 audit.
Mark Hannam Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 20 February 2018
