106 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Independent auditors report UNITED KINGDOM Ernst & Young LLP NETHERLANDS Ernst & Young Accountants LLP TO: THE MEMBERS OF RELX PLC TO: THE GENERAL MEETING OF RELX NV For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote Ernst & Young LLP in relation to the UK responsibilities and reporting obligations to the Members of RELX PLC and Ernst & Young Accountants LLP in relation to Dutch responsibilities and reporting obligations to the General Meeting of RELX NV.
RELX PLC and RELX NV jointly own RELX Group plc, which holds all the operating businesses and nancing activities.
RELX PLC, RELX NV, RELX Group plc and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are together known as the Group.
The reports of Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & Young Accountants LLP are presented in the left and right hand columns of this report respectively.
Where separate columns are not presented, the content of the reports of Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & Young Accountants LLP are identical unless clearly marked otherwise.
The financial statements the Financial Statements, which are dened below, comprise: the consolidated financial statements of the Group the Consolidated Financial Statements : the parent company financial statements of RELX PLC the PLC Company Accounts : and the parent company financial statements of RELX NV the NV Company Accounts.
OPINIONS We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group, which is based in London and Amsterdam, for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash ows, and the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 to 32, including a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In addition, Ernst & Young LLP has audited the PLC Company Accounts which comprise the company statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017, the company statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the notes 1 to 5 including a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information and Ernst & Young Accountants LLP has audited the NV Company Accounts, based in Amsterdam, which comprise the company statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017, the company statement of comprehensive income, and the company statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the notes 1 to 8 to the NV Company Accounts, including the summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
RELX PLC RELX NV In our opinion: In our opinion: the Consolidated Financial Statements and the PLC Company the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair Accounts give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups view of the financial position of the Group as at 31 December and of RELX PLCs affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the 2017 and of its result and its cash flows for the year then ended Groups profit for the year then ended: in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly International Accounting Standards Board and with Part 9 of prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code: and Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the NV Company Accounts give a true and fair view of the the PLC Company Accounts have been properly prepared financial position of RELX NV as at 31 December 2017 and of in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted its result for 2017 in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Accounting Practice: and Disclosure Framework as a result of applying Section 362 1 both the Consolidated Financial Statements and the PLC of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Company Accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the PLC Company Accounts and the NV Company Accounts financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors' report 107 2.
BASIS FOR OPINIONS RELX PLC RELX NV We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities including the Dutch Standards on Auditing.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section 10 of responsibilities section 10 of our report.
We are independent of RELX Group and RELX PLC We are independent of RELX Group in accordance with the in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our Verordening inzake fide onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical assurance-opdrachten ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence and fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands.
Furthermore we have complied with the Verordening We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and gedrags-en beroepsregels accountants VGBA, Dutch Code appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
USE OF OUR REPORT RELX PLC This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT RELX PLC We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 60 to 63 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 60 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 79 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 80 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
108 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 5.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters Uncertain tax positions Internally developed intangible assets Aspects of revenue recognition Carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets Finance systems Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 6 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 5 components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 79% of absolute profit before tax, 78% of revenue and 78% of total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 86.7m which represents approximately 5% of profit before tax.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signicance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identied.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
We have communicated the key audit matters to the Boards.
The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reection of all matters discussed.
RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEES Uncertain tax positions Risk direction: Refer to the Report of the Audit Committees on page 103 and note 10 Taxation of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 134 The Group is subject to tax in numerous Procedures on the uncertain tax positions We concluded that managements jurisdictions.
Its complex organisation were performed centrally by the Group team judgements in relation to the extent of and operational structure gives rise supported by overseas teams including provisions for uncertain tax positions to potential tax exposures that require specialists: are appropriate.
management to exercise judgement in We assessed the processes and tested making determinations as to the amount controls over the tax provisioning process.
We met with tax management to understand the Group cross-border transactions, status The Group reports cross-border of all significant provisions, and any changes transactions undertaken between subsidiaries on an arms-length basis to managements judgements in the year.
in tax returns in accordance with We read correspondence with tax authorities Organisation for Economic Co-operation and external advisors to inform our and Development OECD guidelines.
assessment of recorded estimates and However, transfer pricing relies on the evaluate the completeness of the provisions exercise of judgement and it is frequently recorded.
possible for there to be a range of We evaluated managements methodology legitimate and reasonable views.
to record or release provisions following tax audits, settlements and the expiry of The Group is subject to tax authority audits timeframes.
as a matter of routine and has a number of open tax enquiries.
We tested the calculation of the year end provisions by inspecting underlying As a result, it has recognised a number of documentation and supporting schedules.
provisions against uncertain tax positions, the valuation of which requires significant judgement.
We focused on this area due to the signicance of the balance and the subjectivity in determining the quantication of the provision and the judgement around the trigger for recognition or release.
There is a risk that the tax provisions may be incorrectly quantied, impacting the provision and the effective tax rate.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors' report 109 RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEES Internally developed intangible assets Risk direction: Refer to the Report of the Audit Committees on page 103 and note 16 Intangible assets of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 143 The Group capitalised internally developed We performed full and specic scope audit We did not identify any evidence of intangible assets of 304 million in the procedures over this risk area in 6 locations, material misstatement in the internally current year 2016: 280 million.
The which covered 86% of the account balance: developed intangible assets balance.
capitalisation of costs related to the We assessed the processes and tested development of new products and controls for the capitalisation of internally business infrastructure, together with generated intangible assets and the useful economic lives applied to the identification of indicators of impairment.
resulting assets, requires the exercise We assessed the accounting policy and of judgement.
methodology for capitalisation of expenditures.
We evaluated the accuracy and valuation We focused on this area as the Group of amounts capitalised to assess that costs has invested signicantly in a number are directly attributable and necessary to of projects across the business.
It is create, produce, and prepare the asset to be inherently judgemental with respect to capable of operating in the manner intended technical feasibility, intention and ability by management.
to complete the intangible asset, ability to use or sell the asset, generation of future We assessed managements consideration economic benets and the ability to as to whether indicators of impairment measure the costs reliably.
This results existed based on the ongoing business in a risk that expenditures may be rationale, including the stage of completion inappropriately capitalised, amortised for internally developed intangible assets.
Where indicators were present, we assessed managements recovery projections to determine the reasonableness of judgements on expected cash flows that support recovery of the intangible balance.
Aspects of revenue recognition Risk direction: Refer to note 2 Segment Analysis of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 124 The Group earns revenue from a variety We performed full and specic scope audit We did not identify evidence of material of sources among the different business procedures over this risk area in 10 locations, misstatement in the revenue areas, including annual subscriptions, which covered 78% of the risk amount.
We recognised in the year.
transactional usage and exhibition fees.
performed procedures to address the specic The nature of the risk associated with the risk in each business area.
accurate recording of revenue varies.
We assessed the processes and tested controls over each significant revenue We recognise that revenue is a key metric stream.
upon which the Group is judged, that the We evaluated the appropriateness of journal Group has annual internal targets, and entries impacting revenue, as well as other that the Group has incentive schemes that adjustments made in the preparation of the are partially impacted by revenue growth.
We considered unusual We have determined that there is a risk journals such as those posted outside of in relation to each of the business areas expected days, or by unexpected individuals.
reective of the opportunity to commit We also evaluated managements controls fraud in the respective revenue streams over such adjustments.
through manual adjustments or override We inspected a sample of contracts to check of controls by management.
that revenue recognition was in accordance with the contract terms and the groups revenue recognition policies.
We tested a sample of transactions around period end to test that revenue was recorded in the correct period.
For revenue streams which have judgemental elements, we evaluated managements assumptions.
110 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 6.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS CONTINUED RISK OUR RESPONSE TO THE RISK KEY OBSERVATIONS COMMUNICATED TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEES Carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible assets Risk direction: Refer to the Report of the Audit Committees on page 103 and note 15 Goodwill and note 16 Intangible assets of the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 142 and143, respectively We focused on this area due the size of We assessed the key information used in We noted the assumptions relating the goodwill balance of 5,965 million determining the valuation including the to the impairment models fell within 2016: 6,392 million and acquired weighted average cost of capital, cash ow acceptable ranges.
intangible assets net book amount of forecasts and the implicit growth, utilising We agree with managements 2,058 million 2016: 2,519 million our specialist support as necessary.
We also conclusion that no material impairment and because the Directors assessment conducted a sensitivity analysis to understand of goodwill or intangible assets were of the value in use of the Groups Cash how much these projections would need to required in the year.
Generating Units CGU involves change by for there to be an impairment.
judgement about the future results of the We assessed managements annual goodwill Group and the discount rates applied to and indefinite lived acquired intangible asset cash ow forecasts, and any consequential impairment review as well as managements impairment that may be necessary.
consideration as to whether indicators of impairment existed for nite lived acquired intangible assets.
Where indicators were present for acquired intangible assets, we focused on the key judgements in the impairment review calculations, for example, the expected cash ows and future benets as compared to the costs where applicable.
Finance systems Risk direction: The Group has many IT systems which are We utilised IT auditors to support our evaluation Our understanding and testing of IT vital to the ongoing operations and to the of the design and operation of IT controls to systems and controls supported our integrity of the financial reporting process.
address the Group's control objectives and audit approach.
Due to the global nature of the Group and financial reporting risks.
its operations, the applications, associated We made inquiries of management to infrastructure and IT processes which understand the IT environment and walked support significant business and financial through the financial processes end-to-end processes are spread across a number in order to understand where IT systems of locations.
These are delivered by a mix were integral to the Group accounting of in-house teams and third party support processes, as applicable.
providers who on occasion reside in We performed data analytic procedures different countries from the physical in certain locations and business areas location of the IT infrastructure or the to understand the flow of transactions location of the RELX business users.
and perform specific test procedures.
Understanding the IT environment We tested the IT general controls including interfaces between them was an environment for the key applications.
area of audit focus to assess if transactions Where appropriate, we received reports are being processed accurately.
from the service auditors of the outsourced systems and evaluated the adequacy of the work performed and followed up on matters arising, performing further procedures as necessary.
Where required, we tested compensating controls or performed alternative procedures to complement the controls based audit approach.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation to Transition as auditor, including auditing opening balances.
As this is our second year auditing the Group, the key audit matter relating to audit transition is no longer applicable.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors' report 111 7.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk prole, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The Group has centralised processes for key judgements and determination of accounting policies.
Certain areas of audit focus, namely internally developed intangible assets, revenue recognition, and IT system management are decentralised processes delineated by business area.
We have tailored our audit response accordingly and procedures for the areas of focus were performed or directed by the Group audit team.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the reporting components of the Group, we selected eleven components covering entities within United Kingdom, the Netherlands, the United States, France, and Switzerland, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the eleven components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of six components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining five components specic scope components, we performed audit procedures on specic accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk prole.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 79% 2016: 83% of the Groups profit before tax on an 1 absolute basis, 78% 2016: 83% of the Groups Revenue and 78% 2016: 82% of the Groups Total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 57% 2016: 57% of the Groups profit before tax on an absolute basis, 70% 2016: 75% of the Groups revenue and 70% 2016: 72% of the Groups total assets.
The specic scope component contributed 22% 2016: 26% of the Groups profit before tax on an absolute basis, 8% 2016: 8% of the Groups revenue and 8% 2016: 10% of the Groups total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
Of the remaining components that together represent 21% of the Groups profit before tax on an absolute basis, none are individually greater than 2.1% of the Groups profit before tax on an absolute basis.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, review of internal audit reports, and testing of consolidation journals, intercompany eliminations and foreign currency translation recalculations at the Group level to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX ABSOLUTE REVENUE TOTAL ASSETS 21% 22% 22% 8% 8% 57% 22% 70% 70% Full scope Specic scope Other procedures Changes from the prior year Changes from the prior year include reducing two components from full to specic scope and reducing three components from specic scope to other procedures scope as part of our risk focused approach which reects the experience gained from being in our second year as auditors.
Integrated team structure The overall audit strategy is determined by the UK senior statutory auditor, Nigel Jones and Dutch statutory auditor Guus van Eimeren.
RELX Group plc is based in the UK, however, due to the structure of the RELX PLC and RELX NV ownership, the Group team includes members from both the UK and the Netherlands.
The Dutch auditor travelled to the UK many times during the current years audit and members of the Group audit team in both jurisdictions work together as an integrated team.
Both partners attended certain Audit Committee meetings during the course of the audit and concluded on key judgements.
Coverage of profit before tax measured on an absolute basis for each component components with a loss would be added to both the numerator and denominator.
112 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 7.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT CONTINUED Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network rms operating under our instruction.
Of the six full scope components, audit procedures were performed on three of these directly by the Group audit team.
For the five specic scope components, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditors, or another group audit partner, visit all full scope locations and specic scope locations on a rotational basis.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Group audit team to the component teams in United Kingdom, the Netherlands, the United States, France, and Switzerland.
These visits involved meeting local management and discussing the audit approach with the component audit team and any issues arising from their work.
The Group audit team also participated in key discussions, via conference calls with all full and specic scope locations.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identied misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 86.7 million 2016: 74.0 million, which is 5% 2016: 5% of profit before tax.
We believe that this materiality basis provides us with the best assessment of the requirements of the users of the financial statements.
RELX PLC RELX NV We determined materiality for the PLC Company Accounts to We determined materiality for the NV Company Accounts to be 63.4 million 2016: 31.3million, which is 2% 2016: 1% of be 87.4 million 2016: 43.1 million, which is 2% 2016: 1% equity.
Materiality has increased due to this being our second of equity.
Materiality has increased due to this being our second year auditing the company.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our materiality, namely 65.0m 2016: 56.0m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our assessment of the control environment and the historic lack of significant audit findings.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 19.5m to 48.7m 2016: 13.5m to 33.8m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identied misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 4.35m 2016: 3.7m, which is set at 5% of materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors' report 113 9.
OTHER REPORTING RELX PLC RELX NV Other information Report on other information included the annual report and The other information comprises the information included in the financial statements annual report as set out on pages 2-104, other than the financial In addition to the financial statements and our auditors report statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are thereon, the annual reports and financial statements contain responsible for the other information.
other information that consists of: Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the Report of the Board of RELX NV: other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly Other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance Civil Code: conclusion thereon.
5 year summary: In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our Other financial information: responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Shareholder information.
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the the other information: audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we is consistent with the financial statements and does not identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material contain material misstatements: misstatements, we are required to determine whether there contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a Dutch Civil Code.
material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material We have read the other information.
Based on our knowledge misstatement of the other information, we are required to report and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial that fact.
statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements.
By performing We have nothing to report in this regard.
these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720.
The responsibility to specically address the following items in scope of the procedures performed is less than the scope of those the other information and to report as uncorrected material performed in our audit of the financial statements.
misstatements of the other information where we conclude that Engagement those items meet the following conditions: We have been engaged by the General Meeting at 13 January 2016 Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 79 the as auditor of RELX NV since the audit of the year 2016 and we are statement given by the directors that they consider the annual the statutory auditor since that date up until today.
report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 103 -104 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 71 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
114 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 9.
OTHER REPORTING CONTINUED Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identied material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Independent auditors' report 115 10.
SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES RELX PLC RELX NV Responsibilities of directors Directors and Audit Committees responsibilities As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for: statement set out on page 171, the directors are responsible the preparation and fair presentation of the Consolidated for the preparation of the financial statements and for being Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal the European Union and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code: control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the the preparation and fair presentation of the NV Company preparation of financial statements that are free from material Accounts in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Framework as a result of applying Section 362 1 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code: In preparing the financial statements, the directors are the preparation of the other information, including the report responsible for assessing the group and parent companys of the Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, Civil Code and other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 matters related to going concern and using the going concern of the Dutch Civil Code: basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease such internal control as the directors determine is necessary operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
to enable the preparation of the Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about responsible for assessing the Groups and RELX NVs ability to whether the financial statements as a whole are free from continue as a going concern.
Based on the financial reporting material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to frameworks mentioned, the Directors should prepare the issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable Consolidated Financial Statements and NV Company Accounts assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will either intend to liquidate the Group and or RELX NV or to cease always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered Directors should disclose in the Financial Statements events and material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Groups reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions and or RELX NVs ability to continue as a going concern.
of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered financial reporting process.
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud Auditors responsibilities The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.
evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected of assurance, which means we may not have detected all errors fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary and fraud.
responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered with both those charged with governance of the entity and material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably management.
be expected to inuence the economic decisions of users taken Our approach was as follows: on the basis of these financial statements.
The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory evaluation of the effect of identied misstatements on our opinion.
frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined that the most significant are those that relate to For more information about an audit of financial statements, the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 101, the Companies Act we refer to the NBA website: https: www.
nl globalassets 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tools-en-voorbeelden standaardpassages eng tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the beursgenoteerd 01. pdf.
We understood how RELX Group is complying with those frameworks making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the company secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes and papers provided to the Audit Committee.
116 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 10.
SCOPE AND RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial Report on other legal and regulatory requirements statements to material misstatement, including how fraud We have been engaged by the General Meeting at 13 January might occur by meeting with management from various parts 2016 as auditor of RELX NV since the audit of the year 2016 of the business to understand where it considered there was and we are the statutory auditor since that date up until today.
We also considered performance We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred targets and their propensity to influence on efforts made to in Article 5 1 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements by management to manage earnings.
We considered the regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities.
programmes and controls that the group has established to We also submit an additional report to the audit committee address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest programmes and controls.
Where the risk was considered entities.
The information included in this additional report to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each is consistent with our audit opinion in this auditors report.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of legal counsel, Group management, internal audit, country management at all full and specific scope management: and focused testing.
In addition, we completed procedures to conclude on the compliance of the disclosures in the annual report and accounts with all applicable requirements.
Any instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations were communicated by to components and considered in our audit approach, if applicable.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on theFinancial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 21 April 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is two years, covering the years ending 2016 and 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain independent of the group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
SIGNING Nigel Jones Guus van Eimeren Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young Accountants LLP London Amsterdam 14 February 2018 14 February 2018 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the RELX Group web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
