Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Opinion 1 In our opinion HSBC Holdings plcs HSBC Group financial statements and parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and parent company's affairs at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups and parent companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis of these opinions In expressing these opinions, I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate.
My work has been undertaken, and my opinions expressed, in accordance with applicable law and the International Standards on Auditing UK as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC of the United Kingdom.
My responsibilities and those of the Directors are explained later in this report.
I can confirm that  LLP remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to the audit of listed public interest entities in the UK, which includes the FRC's Ethical Standard.
PwC has also fulfilled its other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
All services provided by members of the PwC network of firms are included in Note 6 and none of these services were prohibited by the Ethical Standard.
How the audit approach was structured This was the third year that it has been my responsibility to form these opinions on behalf of PwC, who you first appointed on 31 March 2015 in relation to that year's audit.
I have provided information on how PwC approached the audit, how it changed from the previous year and details of the significant discussions on key audit matters that I, and my senior colleagues, had with the Group Audit Committee GAC.
The audit approach was structured to reflect how HSBC is organised.
It incorporated four important aspects: 1 Risk assessment and audit planning at a Group level, having regard to HSBCs global businesses: A partner led the audit of each global business.
These partners met regularly with the relevant HSBC management to understand strategy and matters which arose throughout the year that could have impacted financial reporting.
The partners are specialists in the nature of the relevant businesses and were best placed to design the appropriate audit approach for that part of HSBC.
They oversaw each PwC member firm involved in the audit of that global business and assisted me in my review of their work.
2 Audit work performed at global shared service centres: A significant amount of the operational processes which are critical to financial reporting are undertaken in Operations centres run by HSBC Operations Services and Technology 'HOST' across eleven individual sites in six countries.
Financial reporting processes required to produce the financial statements are performed in HSBCs Finance Operations Centres based in Gurugram and Hyderabad, India.
Working closely with me, a partner coordinated the audit work performed by PwC member firms in each of these sites.
This work established an end-to-end picture of the key processes that supported material balances, classes of transactions and disclosures within the HSBC financial statements.
It enabled the team to evaluate the effectiveness of the controls over these processes and considered the implications for the remainder of our audit work.
3 Audit work executed on individual legal entities: I received opinions from PwC member firms which had been appointed as the external auditors of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 'HBAP', HSBC Bank plc, HSBC North America Holdings Inc, HSBC Mexico S. A. HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, HSBC Private Bank Suisse S. A. HSBC Global Services UK Limited and HSBC Group Management Services Limited the Significant Subsidiaries.
I was in active dialogue throughout the year with the partners responsible for these audits: this included consideration of how well they planned and performed their work.
My senior colleagues and I visited these subsidiaries, and attended Audit Committees meetings for five of them.
We also visited businesses in a further five countries.
These meetings increased our understanding of some of the smaller businesses within HSBC.
I also attended meetings with management in each of these Significant Subsidiaries at the year-end.
The audits of these subsidiaries relied upon work performed by PwC member firms in Algeria, Australia, Bahrain, China, France, India and Qatar.
I considered how my Significant Subsidiary audit teams instructed and reviewed the work undertaken in these locations in order to ensure the quality and adequacy of their work.
Collectively, the PwC member firms completed procedures covering 84% of assets, 73% of total operating income and 67% of profit before tax.
4 Audit procedures undertaken at a Group level and on the parent company: I ensured that appropriate further work was undertaken for the HSBC Group and parent company.
This work included auditing, for example, the consolidation of the Groups results, the preparation of the financial statements, certain disclosures within the Directors' Remuneration Report, litigation provisions and exposures, and managements entity level and oversight controls relevant to financial reporting.
Consideration was also made of all changes to, and pending changes to, financial reporting standards and requirements.
Of particular focus has been HSBCs assessment of the impacts of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, which are discussed in Note 1.
1 We have audited the HSBC Holdings plcs financial statements which comprise the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 31 December 2017, the consolidated and parent company income statements and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended, the consolidated and parent company statement of cash flows for the year then ended, the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended, and the notes on the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
166 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Changes to the approach in 2017 The 2016 audit was comprehensively reviewed during the year by the FRC Audit Quality Review team.
The review did not result in any change to our audit approach, but observations on the procedures we performed have been fully reflected in our work this year.
In March 2017, I chaired a three-day meeting in Hong Kong of the partners and staff from PwC member firms who undertake audits of the Significant Subsidiaries.
There were no significant changes in this team during 2017, except that a partner's resignation led to a change in Mexico.
The meeting provided an opportunity for those partners and staff to hear directly from HSBC management.
We considered during this meeting how our view of significant audit risks had changed.
More detailed changes in the approach arose because of five areas: 1 Changes in the structure and strategy of the HSBC Group In assessing the subsidiaries which were significant in 2017, I removed HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. and included for the first time HSBC Global Services UK Limited and HSBC Group Management Services Limited.
These are the UK based service companies which provide operational activities and transaction processing to HSBCs banking subsidiaries and the parent company.
Additionally, the scope of the smaller entities reporting to the Significant Subsidiary audit teams was changed, which introduced unpredictability into the audit.
HSBC Bank Australia Limited was added: HSBC Trinkhaus & Burkhardt AG and HSBC Bank AS Turkey removed: and, the scope of work in the HBAP India branch was increased.
2 IFRS 9 IFRS 9 applies to HSBC from 1 January 2018.
It has far reaching implications for the classification and measurement of assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and the calculation of impairment on assets.
The changes required to processes and controls to comply with this accounting standard are complex and significant.
I asked a partner who is a specialist in IFRS 9 to audit the processes adopted, assumptions made, and control framework established to quantify the impact statement included within Note 1.
In May 2017, he hosted a joint three day workshop in London for PwC and HSBC teams from thirteen countries to provide them with an understanding of the HSBC implementation programme and to agree the planned audit approach.
This included an understanding of the activities and controls over IFRS 9 models and calculations performed in the Operations centres in Bangalore and Chennai, India.
3 Changes to HSBC processes and controls As part of the efforts to streamline controls and reduce costs, HSBC continued to migrate more activities to the global shared service centres, for example process and controls supporting intangible assets.
This consequently resulted in work moving between PwC member firms.
Testing over reconciliations has been mostly performed in the HOST centres, particularly for Global Banking & Markets and nostro accounts.
4 HSBC strategic actions 2017 was the final year of the strategic plan period.
Such plans could increase the incentive that controls may be overridden to achieve published goals.
I considered the impact that the changes in HSBC leadership had on this inherent risk.
Achievement of these strategic actions is not subject to the audit.
However, some of the key performance indicators KPIs used to track performance are derived from the financial statements.
I therefore considered how the targeted outcomes in HSBCs strategic actions may influence areas of significant judgement, cut off of revenue and expenses and managements incentive to override controls.
5 Changes in the macro environment Other macro factors were considered to determine if changes in the approach were required, for example: geopolitical risk such as the impacts of Brexit or tensions on the Korean peninsula: the impact of natural disasters: and, changes in regulatory programmes such as UK structural reform.
I reported to the GAC that I did not believe that these changed my risk assessment.
Responsibilities of the Directors and auditor The Directors have, on page 165 acknowledged their responsibility to prepare the financial statements to give a true and fair view: to have controls enabling them to be satisfied that they are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: and, as described below, assess whether the Group and parent company can continue as a going concern.
An audit has an important role in providing confidence in the financial statements that are provided by companies to their members.
The audit opinion does not provide assurance over any particular number or disclosure, but over the financial statements taken as a whole.
The scope of an audit is sometimes not fully understood.
I believe that it is important that you understand the scope in order to understand the assurance that my opinion provides.
A further description of the scope of an audit is provided on the FRCs website at www.
uk : I recommend that you read this description carefully.
It is also important that you understand the inherent limitations of the audit which are disclosed in this description, for example the possibility that an approach based upon sampling and other audit techniques may not identify all issues.
I and my colleagues responsible for the Significant Subsidiaries, identified the specific laws and regulations where a breach could lead to a material impact on the financial statements or the Groups going concern, for example business authorisations issued by the Prudential Regulatory Authority.
This is a small population relative to the large number with which the Group, as a financial services business, must comply.
Audit procedures were performed to identify if any such breaches had occurred.
These procedures included meeting with some of the Groups regulators, reviewing correspondence with both regulators and legal advisors and meeting with the Group General Counsel.
Materiality In order for me to perform my work, I had regard to the concept of materiality.
I am now required to provide you with details of how I have determined materiality for both the Group and the parent company.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 167 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Group Parent company Overall Group materiality $900m 2016: $950m $900m 2016: $950m How I determined it 5% of adjusted profit before tax excluding the debit valuation 0.75% of total assets capped at the materiality for the Group.
Why I believe this is Given the geographically dispersed nature of HSBC and the A benchmark of total assets has been used as the parent appropriate diversity of its banking activities, I believe a standard companys primary purpose is to act as a holding company benchmark of 5% of adjusted profit before tax is an with investments in the groups subsidiaries, not to generate appropriate quantitative indicator of materiality, although of operating profits and therefore a profit based measure is not course an item could also be material for qualitative reasons.
I selected adjusted profit before tax, because as discussed on We considered 0.75% to be a more appropriate benchmark page 46, management believes it best reflects the than 1%, given that the entity has a significant level of performance of HSBC.
I excluded the debit valuation external debt.
adjustment and non-qualifying hedges as they are recurring items that in my view form part of ongoing business performance.
When planning the Group audit, I considered if multiple errors might exist which, when aggregated, could exceed $900m.
In order to reduce the risk of multiple errors that could aggregate to this amount, I used a lower level of materiality, known as performance materiality, of $675m to identify the individual balances, classes of transactions and disclosures that were subject to audit.
I asked each of the partners reporting to me on the Significant Subsidiaries to work to assigned materiality levels reflecting the size of the operations they audited.
The overall materialities ranged from $67m HSBC Mexico S. A. to $720m The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
My objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Reasonable assurance is not a guarantee that an audit will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
It is important to recognise that identifying a material misstatement arising from fraud is more difficult than identifying one arising solely from error because fraud generally involves deliberate concealment, collusion or misrepresentation.
Misstatements are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions you may take on the basis of these financial statements.
Where the audit identified misstatements, I considered these items carefully to assess if they were individually or in aggregate material.
I reported any such item which exceeded $50m 2016: $50m for both Group and parent company to the GAC.
The Directors concluded that all items which remained unadjusted were not material to the financial statements.
Matters discussed with the GAC I attended each of the eight GAC meetings held during the year.
Part of each meeting involved a discussion without management present.
I also met with members of the GAC on an ad hoc basis.
During these various conversations we discussed my observations on a variety of accounting matters and observations on controls over financial reporting.
I can confirm that this report is consistent with the reporting made to the GAC.
During the April meeting, the audit plan was presented.
It included the matters which I considered presented the highest risk to the audit and other information, such as our approach to the audit of journals, interest income and financial instrument valuation, and where the latest technology would be used to obtain better quality audit evidence.
Throughout the year, this plan was refreshed and revised to account for changes in the external and internal environment at HSBC.
These changes were discussed with the GAC.
For example, given stakeholder interest in the impact of the adoption of IFRS 9, we updated our view of the risk associated with the IAS 8 disclosure to significant, and the risk associated with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement was reduced following the US Department of Justices decision in December 2017 to dismiss the charges.
In November, the GAC held a meeting with a particular focus on control matters, discussing the impact of control findings on our audit approach.
The key audit matters, where I focused most effort and resource throughout the year, were: IT access management: investment in Bank of Communications Co. Ltd BoCom : IFRS 9 expected credit loss: impairment of loans and advances: the impact of the HSBC Strategic Actions: and litigation and regulatory enforcement actions.
To help you understand their impact on the audit, I have listed them in order of decreasing audit effort.
I have included at the end of this report an explanation of each item, why it was considered a key audit matter and how the audit approach was tailored to address the risk of misstatement.
This is not a list of all audit risks, and I do not form an opinion on any one area, but on the financial statements overall.
Going concern On page 134, the Directors confirmed their belief that it was appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, they believe that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
That statement also included confirmation that because they had not identified any material uncertainties to either the Groups or the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of their approval of these financial statements.
Because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee.
I am required to review this statement, and in doing so I considered HSBCs budgets, cash flows, capital plan and stress tests.
I have nothing to report as a result of my review and nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the statement.
168 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Other required matters and reporting on other information The Annual Report and Accounts contains a considerable amount of other information that is required by regulators or standard setters and is outside of the audited financial statements and the auditors report.
This information, for example the classification of adjusted profit or risk weighted assets may be important to you.
The Directors are responsible for this other information.
In the table below, I have set out certain areas, my related responsibilities and reporting.
Except as outlined in the table, I have not provided an audit opinion or any form of assurance.
My responsibility My reporting Area of the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report on pages 141 to 164 Those parts of which are marked as audited.
Consider whether the information is properly In my opinion, this information has been properly prepared.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Consider whether certain other disclosures The other required disclosures have been made.
specified by the Companies Act have been made.
Other areas Strategic Report and the Directors Report as Consider whether they are consistent with the In my opinion, based on the work undertaken in defined on page 32. audited financial statements.
the course of the audit, the information in these reports is consistent with the audited financial Consider whether they are prepared in accordance statements and prepared in accordance with with applicable legal requirements.
Report if I have identified any material I have no material misstatements to report.
This is based on my knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and the environment they operate in that was obtained during the audit.
Viability statement on page 134 which considers Review the confirmation and description in the I have nothing material to draw attention to or to the longer term sustainability of the Groups light of the knowledge gathered during the audit, add to the confirmation or description.
business model, as to whether the directors have including making enquiries and considering the a reasonable expectation that the group will be directors processes used to support the able to continue in operation and meet its statements made.
liabilities as they fall due over the period of their Consider if the statements are aligned with the assessment, and why the directors consider that relevant provisions of the UK Corporate period to be appropriate.
This includes confirmation of the Directors robust assessment of principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and disclosures describing those risks and how they are managed or mitigated.
Consider whether it deals appropriately with those No exceptions to report.
matters that I reported to the GAC.
Directors statement on page 165 that they Consider whether any information found during No disagreements to report.
consider the HSBC Annual Report and Accounts the course of the audit would cause me to 2017, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and disagree.
understandable and provides the information necessary for you to assess HSBCs position and performance, business model and strategy.
Corporate governance report on pages 121 to Consider whether the Directors statement Nothing to report following my review.
164. relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code properly discloses any departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
All other information in the Annual Report and Read the other information and consider whether Nothing to report following my review.
Accounts 2017 aside from the audited financial it is materially inconsistent with the financial statements and the auditors report.
statements or our knowledge gained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
I am required to perform additional work to validate if apparent inconsistencies or misstatements are real, and report those matters to you.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 169 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Other Reporting In addition, I am required to report to you if: I have not received all of the information and explanations required for my audit: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company: returns adequate for my audit have not been received from branches not visited by PwC: and the parent company financial statements and the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report do not agree with the accounting records and returns.
I have no exceptions to report as a result of any of these responsibilities.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for you, the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006, and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come except where expressly agreed by our prior written consent.
Richard Oldfield Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 20 February 2018 170 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Appendix: Key audit matters discussed with the Group Audit Committee GAC Those areas of most significance to the audit, which include those that presented the most significant risks of material misstatement in the financial statements are required to be discussed with the GAC.
They include those that had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, and the allocation of resources and effort and are discussed below together with an explanation of how the audit was tailored to address these specific areas.
The key audit matters applicable to the parent company are IT Access Management and Strategic actions.
IT Access Management Nature of key audit focus Matters discussed with the GAC All banks are highly dependent on technology due to the significant number of The status on remediation of access controls was discussed at transactions that are processed daily.
The audit approach relies extensively on automated several GAC meetings during the year.
controls and therefore on the effectiveness of controls over IT systems.
Controls were enhanced and implemented over FY17 to In previous years, we identified and reported that controls over access to applications, respond to our audit findings and to reduce the risks over operating systems and data in the financial reporting process required improvements.
privileged access to IT infrastructure such as databases and Access management controls are critical to ensure that changes to applications and operating systems.
However, given the scale and complexity of underlying data are made in an appropriate manner.
Appropriate access controls the remediation, there are still actions to be taken to ensure contribute to mitigating the risk of potential fraud or errors as a result of changes to that controls are fully embedded and operate effectively.
By the end of the audit period, management had successfully Management implemented several remediation activities that contributed to reducing the operated controls to address the critical operating system and risk over access management in the financial reporting process.
These included database related matters previously reported.
Management implementation of Group wide preventative and detective controls across critical continue to progress remediation relating to the management applications and infrastructure.
Due to the pervasive nature of access management of business application access.
issues, however, we continued to assess the risk of a material misstatement arising from access to technology as significant for the audit.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions Access rights were tested over applications, operating systems and databases relied upon for financial reporting.
Specifically, the audit tested that: new access requests for joiners were properly reviewed and authorised: user access rights were removed on a timely basis when an individual left or moved role: access rights to applications, operating systems and databases were periodically monitored for appropriateness: and highly privileged access is restricted to appropriate personnel.
Other areas that were independently assessed included password policies, security configurations, controls over changes to applications and databases and that business users, developers and production support did not have access to change applications, the operating system or databases in the production environment.
As a consequence of the deficiencies identified a range of other procedures were performed: where inappropriate access was identified, we understood the nature of the access, and, where possible, obtained additional evidence on the appropriateness of the activities performed: additional substantive testing was performed on specific year-end reconciliations i. e. custodian, bank account and suspense account reconciliations and confirmations with external counterparties: testing was performed on other compensating controls such as business performance reviews: testing was performed over toxic combination controls: and a list of users access permissions was obtained and manually compared to other access lists where segregation of duties was deemed to be of higher risk, for example users having access to both core banking and payments systems.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GAC Report, page 129.
Effectiveness of internal controls, page 133.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 171 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Investment in associate Bank of Communications Company, Limited BoCom Nature of key audit matter Matters discussed with the GAC HSBC's investment in BoCom is accounted for as an associate, using the equity method.
Discussions with the GAC were focused on: For seven consecutive year-ends the market value of BoCom has been below the carrying the continued appropriateness of the value in use model value.
At 31 December, the market value based on the share price was $7.6bn lower than given the period of time that the carrying value has been in the carrying value.
excess of market value: This is considered an indicator of potential impairment under IFRSs.
An impairment test the key assumptions used in the model.
In October we was performed by HSBC using a value in use model to estimate the investments value discussed the assumptions with the highest level of assuming it continues to be held in perpetuity rather than sold.
On this basis no uncertainty.
Following these discussions, the long-term impairment was recorded and the share of BoComs profits has been recognised in the profit growth rate, discount rate and long-term asset growth consolidated income statement.
rate were reassessed and updated: and The value in use model determines the present value of HSBCs share of BoComs future the reasonably possible alternative assumptions, particularly cash flows.
The model is dependent on many assumptions, both short-term and long-term where they had the most impact on the value in use in nature.
These assumptions are derived from a combination of management estimates, calculation.
analysts forecasts and market data, and are highly judgemental.
At 31 December, HSBC confirmed its view that the model and updated assumptions were appropriate, and not inconsistent with information obtained in its capacity as a shareholder and board member of BoCom.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions The conclusions on the appropriateness of the model were reviewed and the discount rate used within the model was independently recalculated with the assistance of our valuation experts.
Inputs used in the determination of assumptions within the model were challenged and corroborating information was obtained with reference to external market information, third-party sources, including analyst reports, and historical publicly available BoCom information.
The controls in place over the model were tested.
A meeting in September 2017 between management and senior BoCom executive management, held specifically to identify facts or circumstances impacting management assumptions, was observed.
The mathematical accuracy of the model was tested.
Disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 in relation to BoCom were reviewed.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GAC Report, page 130.
Note 1.2 a : Critical accounting estimates and judgements, page 188.
Note 17: Interests in associates and joint ventures, page 221.
IFRS 9 expected credit loss Nature of key audit matter Matters discussed with the GAC This is a new and complex accounting standard which has required considerable Status updates were provided during the year due to the judgement and interpretation in its implementation.
These judgements have been key in complexity and size of the implementation programme.
The the development of the new models which have been built and implemented to measure GAC reviewed the Global Public Policy Committee paper issued the expected credit losses on loans measured at amortised cost.
in July 2017 which promotes the high-quality audit of the accounting for expected credit losses.
There is a large increase in the data inputs required by these models.
The data is from a number of systems that have not been used previously for the preparation of the An assessment and conclusion on the more judgemental accounting records.
This increases the risk of completeness and accuracy of the data that interpretations made by management was shared with the has been used to create assumptions and is used to operate the model.
These included the determination of what constitutes a data is unavailable and reasonable alternatives have been applied to allow calculations to significant increase in credit risk for retail portfolios, the life of be performed.
retail and wholesale revolving products and the judgements made in applying forward economic guidance to the expected credit loss calculation.
We highlighted significant post model adjustments that had been recorded to address challenges in data quality or areas of model weakness.
The Group adopted a single approach to implementation in all subsidiaries.
This required a discussion with the GAC on the acceptability of assumptions made to different markets.
Perspectives were shared on the control environment and quality of data being used for the disclosure of the IAS 8 impact of adopting IFRS 9.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions Controls over the selection and approval of the accounting policy were tested.
This included our assessment of the technical papers prepared by management with the IFRS 9 requirements.
Controls over governance and model development were tested.
We used our modelling specialists to test the modelling methodology for material portfolios.
Risk based testing of models, including independent re-build of certain assumptions, was performed.
Testing of the review controls performed by management to assess the reasonableness of the disclosed impact of adopting IFRS 9.
Note 1.1 c Future accounting developments, page 186.
172 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Impairment of loans and advances Nature of key audit matter Matters discussed with the GAC Impairment allowances represent managements best estimate of the losses incurred At each GAC and Group Risk Committee meeting there was a within the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
They are calculated on a collective discussion on changes to risk factors and other inputs within basis for portfolios of loans of a similar nature and on an individual basis for significant the collective allowance models as well as discussions on loans.
The calculation of both collective and specific impairment allowances is inherently individually significant loan impairments.
A number of specific risks were discussed including: Collective impairment allowances are calculated using models which approximate the geopolitical uncertainty, impact of current economic and credit conditions on large portfolios of loans.
The inputs low global growth, to these models are based on historical loss experience with judgement applied to slowing private investment, determine the assumptions used to calculate impairment.
Model overlays are applied where data driven parameters or calculations are not considered representative of current concern about personal indebtedness particularly in the UK, risks or conditions of the loan portfolios.
and natural disasters in Mexico and the US.
For specific impairments, judgement is required to determine when an impairment event has occurred and then to estimate the expected future cash flows related to that loan.
Inall of these cases, the performance of the existing credit exposure was discussed, and the potential need for changes to The audit was focused on impairment due to the materiality of the loan balances and associated impairment allowances and the subjective nature of the impairment modelling approaches.
Changes made to the inputs or models impacting the collective impairment allowance were discussed, noting the results of The largest loan portfolios are in Europe and Asia with the more significant impairment allowances being in Europe, North America and Latin America.
controls and substantive testing and the impact on the audit approach.
A focus was also on significant post model adjustments and the suitability of changes made to relevant models in the period.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions The controls management has established to support their collective and specific impairment calculations were tested.
For collective impairment, this included controls over the appropriateness of models used to calculate the charge, the process of determining key assumptions and the identification of loans to be included within the calculation.
For specific impairment charges on individual loans, this included controls over the monitoring of the credit watch list, credit file review processes, approval of external collateral valuation vendors and review controls over the approval of significant individual impairments.
For collective allowances, the appropriateness of the modelling policy and methodology used for material portfolios was independently assessed by reference to the accounting standards and market practices.
Model calculations were tested through re-performance and code review.
Specifically with respect to the collective impairment models for the retail portfolios, we reviewed the enhancements made to the models and methodology to ensure they were appropriate.
The appropriateness of managements judgements was also independently considered in respect of calculation methodologies, segmentation, economic factors and judgemental overlays, the period of historical loss rates used, loss emergence periods, cure rates for impaired loans, and the valuation of recovery assets and collateral.
For specific allowances, the appropriateness of provisioning methodologies and policies was independently assessed for a sample of loans across the portfolio selected on the basis of risk.
An independent view was formed on the levels of provisions booked based on the detailed loan and counterparty information in the credit file.
Calculations within a sample of discounted cash flow models were re-performed.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Impaired loans, page 86.
Note 1.2 d : Financial instruments measured at amortised cost, page 189.
The impact of HSBCs strategic actions Nature of key audit matter Matters discussed with the GAC Auditing standards require that we consider the inherent risk of the potential for An initial view of the impact of the strategic actions was management override of controls.
2017 was the final year for HSBC to achieve the agreed with the GAC during the planning stage of the audit in outcomes set out in the strategic actions communicated to shareholders in June 2015.
At this time we set out an enhanced test plan We considered whether this increased the incentive for management to over-ride controls around KPIs that were important and would relate to financial given the external pressure to meet the targets.
numbers in the annual report and accounts.
In our view, such plans could increase the incentive that controls may be overridden, and The initial view was re-assessed in January 2018 as certain this does not reflect specific concern about HSBC or its management.
KPIs became more sensitive to underlying changes in revenue and costs.
Certain additional procedures relating to cost Achievement of these strategic actions is not subject to audit.
However, some of the recognition were agreed with the GAC.
KPIs used to track performance are derived from the financial statements and our test plan was established to reflect the risk that they may be misstated.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions: Reviewed and challenged accounting policies, judgements and their application.
Performed substantive tests on journals, specifically considering cut off of revenue and expenses.
Critically assessed the designation of items as significant for the purposes of reporting adjusted profit measures and revenue cost ratios.
Tested the clearance and appropriateness of classification of aged reconciliation breaks.
Performed testing over the controls applied to the classification of costs within Costs to Achieve.
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic actions, page 12.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 173 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the independent auditors to the members of HSBC Holdings plc Litigation and regulatory enforcement actions Nature of key audit matter Matters discussed with the GAC HSBC, like other global banking institutions, is exposed to a significant number of open Group Legal provided to each GAC meeting an update on the legal cases and regulatory investigations in a number of its markets.
Given the business is status of significant legal cases.
These updates considered geographically dispersed, the same matter could be subject to litigation or investigation whether all related litigation or investigations about a specific in multiple jurisdictions.
Provisions have been established to account for probable legal liabilities and regulatory Material matters were discussed during each meeting and the fines.
The most significant provisions relate to tax-related investigations and foreign need for changes to provisions considered.
We participated in exchange market manipulation.
these discussions, including consideration of whether any constructive obligation had arisen in individual cases.
There are a number of legal and regulatory matters for which no provision has been established, as discussed on page 244.
There is an inherent risk that legal exposures are not identified and considered for financial reporting purposes on a timely basis.
Importantly, the decision to recognise a provision and the basis of measurement are judgemental.
Procedures performed to support our discussions and conclusions Controls designed to ensure the completeness and adequacy of current legal and regulatory provisions were tested.
Regulatory correspondence from material markets was also read, and a sample of legal expenses were reviewed.
Open legal cases were discussed with Group Legal and in certain instances we obtained and reviewed the relevant regulatory and litigation documents in order to assess the facts and circumstances.
The range of reasonably possible outcomes was considered for material provisions to independently assess the appropriateness of the judgement made by HSBC.
The disclosures of legal exposures and provisions were assessed for completeness and accuracy.
Note 34: Legal proceedings and regulatory matters, page 244.
174 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
