118 Independent auditors report to the members of Beazley plc 1.
Our op inion is unmodified We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 6 November 2002.
The period of total uninterrupted We have audited the financial statements of engagement is for the 15 financial years ended 31 Beazley plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical December 2017 which comprise the consolidated responsibilities under, and we remain independent of statement of profit or loss, statement of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements comprehensive income, statement of changes in including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed equity, statements of financial position, statements public interest entities.
No non-audit services of cash flows, and the related notes, including the prohibited by that standard were provided.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair Overview view of the state of the Groups and of the Materiality: $20m 2016: $20m parent Companys affairs as at 31 December group financial 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then 1% 2016: 1% of Gross written statements as a ended: premium whole the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Coverage 99% 2016: 99% of group International Financial Reporting Standards as revenue adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 the parent Company financial statements have Recurring risks Valuation of insurance been properly prepared in accordance with liabilities IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Recoverability of Companies Act 2006: and insurance receivables the financial statements have been prepared in and reinsurance assets accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Valuation of financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS investments Regulation.
Valuation of premium Basis for opinion estimates We conducted our audit in accordance with Parent: Recoverability International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs of parent companys UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are investment in described below.
We believe that the audit subsidiaries evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Valuation of insurance Subjective valuation: We used our own actuarial specialists to assist liabilities us in performing our procedures in this area.
Insurance liabilities represent the single largest $5,167.8m, gross, liability for the Group.
Valuation of these liabilities Our procedures included: $3,936.7m, net, of is highly judgemental because it requires a number Sector exp erience and b enchmarking: which incurred but not of assumptions to be made with high estimation Performed benchmarking of Beazleys reported IBNR uncertainty such as expected loss ratios, ultimate loss ratios, initial expected loss represented $2,852.3m, estimates of ultimate premium and of the ratios, premium rate change, expectations gross, $2,078.5m, net: frequency and severity of claims and, where of total losses on natural catastrophes, the 2016: $4,657.7m, gross, appropriate, the discount rate for longer tail rate at which IBNR has been utilised in the $3,575.6m, net, of classes of business by territory and line of year and reserve releases in comparison to which IBNR represented business.
The determination and application of the the rest of the market, in order to identify $2,564.7m, gross, methodology and performance of the calculations specific trends and outliers.
Re-projections: Used our projection of These judgemental and complex calculations for Refer to page 88 Audit premiums and claims on a gross and net insurance liabilities are also used to derive the and Risk Committee basis that we carried out as part of our valuation of the related reinsurance assets.
Report, page 135 overall actuarial audit testing and compared Statement of A margin is added to the actuarial best estimate of these with the Groups estimates.
accounting policies and insurance liabilities to make allowance for specific Methodology assessment: Assessed the page 175 financial risks identified in assessment of the best reserving assumptions and methodology on disclosures.
The appropriate margin to recognise is a a gross basis and net of outwards subjective judgement and estimate taken by the reinsurance for reasonableness using our directors, based on the perceived uncertainty and professional and sector experience and for potential for volatility in the underlying claims.
consistency year on year, including Completeness and accuracy of data: inspecting the Groups margin paper.
The valuation of insurance liabilities depends on Actual versus exp ected testing: complete and accurate data about the volume, Challenged the quality of Beazleys historical amount and pattern of current and historical claims reserving estimates by monitoring since they are often used to form expectations progression of loss ratios against about future claims.
If the data used in calculating expectations.
the insurance liabilities, or for forming judgements In addition to the above, the audit team over key assumptions, is not complete and performed procedures to assess the accurate then material impacts on the valuation of completeness and accuracy of data: insurance liabilities may arise.
Data reconciliations: Checked the completeness and accuracy of the data used within the reserving process by reconciling the actuarial source data to the financial systems.
We have also checked the completeness and accuracy of the data flow from the claims and policy systems into the financial systems primarily through the testing of automated controls.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of insurance liabilities to be acceptable 2016 result: acceptable.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement cont.
The risk Our response Recoverab ility of Recoverab ility of deb tors Our procedures included: insurance receivab les Insurance receivab les: Data reconciliations: Reperformed the Groups and reinsurance assets prepared reconciliations between Xchanging and The ability to identify, monitor and age Insurance receivables the Groups financial systems.
insurance debtors relies on the timely $920.2m: 2016: availability of reliable data.
The availability of Assessing future p remium deb tors: Performed $794.7m, Reinsurance this data is also impacted by the source, an analysis over the unsigned debtors within the assets: $1,231.1m: being either settled direct through insurance receivables balance in order to assess 2016: $1,082.1m intermediaries or through Xchanging.
the valuation and recoverability of these debtors.
Refer to page 89 Audit Reinsurance assets: Provisioning analysis: Critically assessed, based and Risk Committee on our sector experience, the adequacy of the Major catastrophes could impair the groups Report, page 139 provisioning policy in place for Beazley by ability to recover incurred losses from its Statement of assessing and investigating any material reinsurers, depending on the financial accounting policies and movements in policy and the overall percentage of strength of the counterparties, which would pages 171 & 172 bad debt during the reporting period.
then impact the recoverability of reinsurance financial disclosures.
Recoverab ility assessment: Considered potential indications of non-recovery for a sample of Reinsurance contracts are often complex.
reinsurance assets, in light of the credit standing The calculations of recoveries includes a of the counterparty and age of the debt.
number of judgements, and an assessment of the risk transferred.
Our results In recent years, Beazley has adopted a We found the resulting estimate of the consistent approach in determining the bad recoverability of insurance and reinsurance debt provisions to be booked in the financial debtors to be acceptable 2016 result: acceptable.
However, judgement is required in ensuring this approach remains relevant and that any aged balances are being given appropriate attention.
Valuation of Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: investments A proportion of the Groups investment Reconciliation controls: Tested the design and $4,449.6m, of which assets are comprised of either illiquid credit operating effectiveness of the controls associated hedge funds and illiquid assets or investments in hedge funds.
with the existence of the hedge funds and illiquid credit assets comprised These assets are inherently harder to value credit assets.
$557.8m: 2016: due to the inability to obtain a market price Comp aring valuations: For investments in hedge $4,195.4m, of which of these assets as at the balance sheet funds we inspected the financial statements of hedge funds and illiquid date.
As such there is judgement involved in the underlying funds to confirm that the valuation credit assets comprised the valuation of these assets.
$449.5m The valuation of the investments are based Historical accuracy: For illiquid credit assets and on third party valuation reports which are Refer to page 89 Audit investments in hedge funds the historical accuracy received at dates other than the year end and Risk Committee of the valuations was assessed by comparing date.
The investments are subject to Report, page 138 interim valuation reports to the final year-end variations in value between the date of the Statement of reports for prior periods.
valuation report and the period end date.
accounting policies and These variations where applicable require Roll forward testing: Assessed the quantum of page 165 financial judgement to assess whether adjustments change in the valuation of investments between disclosures.
are required to the valuation of the the early close date and the period end date to investments at the period end date.
consider whether there was a material movement post the early close date that required adjustment.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the valuation of hedge fund and illiquid credit assets to be acceptable 2016 result: acceptable.
The risk Our response Valuation of gross Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: premium written In determ ining gross prem ium s written, Retrospective analysis: Critically assessed the estimates adjustments are made to gross premiums groups past expertise in making premium $2,343.8m: 2016: written to reflect adjustments to ultimate estimates through comparison of estimates and $2,195.6m premium estimates, binding authority actuals for prior years for a sample of binders.
We contract binders adjustments, also compared the groups estimate of gross Refer to page 89 Audit reinstatement premiums and other ad hoc premiums written between the early close date and Risk Committee adjustments to premium income.
and reporting date to actuals.
Report, page 136 There is a large proportion of premium Methodology assessment: Inspected the binder Statement of written through the group syndicates via adjustment calculation and agreed that the accounting policies and binders.
Such premiums are uncertain at methodology remains consistent and appropriate page 155 financial inception and the model used in the in the context of the timing of business written disclosures.
recognition and earning of such premiums is throughout the year.
subject to judgement and estimation.
Independent reperformance: Recalculated, on a There is an increased risk of premium sample basis, the earning of premium and estimates being misstated as a result of the investigated any changes to earnings patterns.
early close process which requires Beazley Our results to estimate the premiums relating to the month of December and where necessary We found the resulting estimate of the valuation make adjustments at the period end.
of estimated premium to be acceptable 2016 result: acceptable.
Parent: Recoverability Low risk, high value Our procedures included: of parent companys The carrying amount of the parent Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of investment in companys investments in subsidiaries 100% of investments with the relevant subsidiaries represents 97% 2016: 98% of the subsidiaries financial statements draft balance companys total assets.
Their recoverability sheet to identify whether their net assets, being $724.6m: 2016: is not at a high risk of significant an approximation of their minimum recoverable $724.6m misstatement or subject to significant amount, were in excess of their carrying amount judgement.
However, due to their and assessing whether those subsidiaries have Refer to page 134 materiality in the context of the parent historically been profit-making.
Statement of company financial statements, this is accounting policies and Assessing sub sidiary audits: Assessing the considered to be the area that had the page 190 financial findings of the audit work performed by the greatest effect on our overall parent disclosures.
relevant component auditors and whether these company audit.
findings provide any indicators that the value of the subsidiaries may be impaired.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the recoverability of the parent companys investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2016 result: acceptable.
122 In regards to the US component team covering 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview Beazley Holdings Inc. Beazley Services USA and of the scop e of our audit Beazley Insurance Company Inc. the interaction with the Group team included status update calls along with Materiality for the group financial statements as a remote inspection of the component teams audit files.
whole was set at $20m 31 December 2016: $20m, determined with reference to a benchmark of group gross premiums written of which it represents 1%: 31 Gross written p remium Group Materiality December 2016: 1%.
Gross premiums written was $2.3bn 2016: $2.1bn $20m 2016: $20m used as the benchmark as it is a more stable metric year on year than profit before tax.
In addition, we $2 0m applied materiality of $10m 31 December 2016: $10m Whole financial for UK balances other than insurance and reinsurance statements materiality technical balances and investments, for which we 2016 : $20m believe misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole $16m could be reasonably expected to influence the Component materiality $16 m companys members assessment of the financial Range of materiality at 17 components $0.1m-$16m performance of the group.
2016 : $0.1m-$18m Materiality for the parent financial statements as a whole was set at $7m 31 December 2016: $7m, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets of which it represents 1%, 31 December 2016 $1m 1%.
We have used total assets as the benchmark Gross written premium Misstatements reported to the Group materiality rather than profit before tax because the purpose of audit committee 2016 : $1m the entity is to act as the ultimate parent company of the group and hold investments in other group Group revenue Group profit before tax companies and not to generate profits.
We agreed to report to the Audit and Risk Committee 8 any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements 12 exceeding $1m $0.5m for non-technical 31 2 12 December 2016: $1m $0.5m for non-technical in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on 100% 99% qualitative grounds.
2 016 99% 2 016 99% Of the groups 33 2016: 33 reporting components, we 87 97 subjected 17 2016: 18 to full scope audits for group 87 purposes and 3 2016: 3 to specified risk-focused audit 92 procedures.
These entities were not individually financially significant enough to require a full scope Group total liab ilities audit for group purposes, but did present specific Group total assets individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The components within the scope of our work 8 11 accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
For 8 13 the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
97% 99% 2 016 97% 2 016 99% The work on 3 of the 17 components 2016: 3 of the 18 components was performed by component auditors 89 86 and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, 89 89 was performed by the group audit team.
The group audit team instructed the component team as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The group audit team approved the component Key: Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 materialities, which ranged from $0.1m to $16m 31 Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 December 2016: $0.1m to $18m, having regard to the Full scope for group audit purposes 2016 mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
All other work, including the audit of the Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2016 parent company, was performed by the group audit Residual components team..
We have nothing to report on going concern Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability We are required to report to you if: Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw we have anything material to add or draw attention to in attention to in relation to: relation to the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern the directors confirmation within the viability statement basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that on page 59 that they have carried out a robust may cast significant doubt over the Group and assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, Companys use of that basis for a period of at least including those that would threaten its business model, twelve months from the date of approval of the financial future performance, solvency and liquidity: statements: or the key risks disclosures describing these risks and the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: page 70 is materially inconsistent with and our audit knowledge.
the directors explanation in the viability statement of We have nothing to report in these respects.
how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in considered that period to be appropriate, and their the Annual Rep ort statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in The directors are responsible for the other information operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the presented in the Annual Report together with the financial period of their assessment, including any related statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does disclosures drawing attention to any necessary not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not qualifications or assumptions.
express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
We have nothing to report in this Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in respect.
doing so, consider whether, based on our financial Corporate governance disclosures statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or We are required to report to you if: our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have we have identified material inconsistencies between the not identified material misstatements in the other knowledge we acquired during our financial statements information.
audit and the directors statement that they consider Strategic report and directors report that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and Based solely on our work on the other information: provides the information necessary for shareholders to we have not identified material misstatements in the assess the Groups position and performance, business strategic report and the directors report: model and strategy: or in our opinion the information given in those reports for the section of the annual report describing the work of the financial year is consistent with the financial the Audit Committee does not appropriately address statements: and matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
in our opinion those reports have been prepared in We are required to report to you if the Statement of accordance with the Companies Act 2006. corporate governance does not properly disclose a Directors remuneration report departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration review.
Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on In planning and performing our audit, we considered the which we are required to report by exception impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of the UK listing rules, Companies Act and Prudential Regulatory Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report Authority and Lloyds of London prudential regulation.
We to you if, in our opinion: identified these areas through discussion with the directors adequate accounting records have not been kept by the and other management as required by auditing standards, parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have from our sector experience, and from inspection of the not been received from branches not visited by us: or groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
In addition we had regard to laws and regulations in other areas including the parent Company financial statements and the part of financial reporting, and company and taxation legislation.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and We considered the extent of compliance with those laws returns: or and regulations that directly affect the financial statements, being the UK listing rules and the Companies Act, as part of certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified our procedures on the related financial statement items.
by law are not made: or For the remaining laws and regulations, we made enquiries we have not received all the information and of directors and other management as required by auditing explanations we require for our audit.
standards, and inspected correspondence with regulatory We have nothing to report in these respects.
We communicated identified laws and regulations 7.
Respective responsibilities throughout our team and remained alert to any indications Directors responsibilities of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the group to component audit teams As explained more fully in their statement set out on page of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level, 117, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the with a request to report on any indications of potential financial statements including being satisfied that they give existence of irregularities in these areas, or other areas a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine directly identified by the component team.
is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nondetection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: override of internal controls.
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent our responsibilities Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Auditors responsibilities body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about so that we might state to the Companys members those whether the financial statements as a whole are free from matters we are required to state to them in an auditors material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion permitted by law, we do not accept or assume in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect report, or for the opinions we have formed.
a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is Daniel Cazeaux Senior Statutory Auditor provided on the FRCs website at for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor www.
Chartered Accountants Irregularities ability to detect 15 Canada Square Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant London, E14 5GL laws and regulations irregularities that could have a 7 February 2018 material effect on the financial statements.
F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l s st tat atem emen ent ts s www.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 125 Financial statements 126 Consolidated statement of profit or loss 127 Statement of comprehensive income 128 Statement of changes in equity 130 Statements of financial position 131 Statements of cash flows 132 Notes to the financial statements 193 Glossary
