247149 RIT R&A pp073-pp082 26 02 2018 11:16 Page 74 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion, RIT Capital Partners plcs Group Financial Statements and Parent Company Financial Statements the Financial Statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Companys Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements, included within the Report & Accounts, which comprise: the Consolidated Balance Sheet: the Parent Company Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity: and the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 5 to the Financial Statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach Context RIT Capital Partners plc is a FTSE 250 self-managed investment trust, managed by a wholly owned subsidiary J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited.
The operations of the Group are located in the UK.
Each year we focus our work primarily on the valuation of the investment portfolio, including direct private investments, funds, investment property and derivatives.
74 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc 247149 RIT R&A pp073-pp082 26 02 2018 11:16 Page 75 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Overview Overall Group materiality: 50.0 million 2016: 47.1 million, based on 1.75% of Net Assets.
Overall Parent Company materiality: 48.7 million 2016: 45.9 million, based on 1.75% of Materiality Net Assets.
The Group comprises an Investment Company and its subsidiaries, managing a widely diversified portfolio.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of 12 entities Audit scope including J Rothschild Capital Management Limited the manager and the Parent Company.
We audited the Financial Statements of 6 subsidiaries and the Parent Company which together account for 100% of the Groups income, 100% of its profit before tax, and 100% of Areas of focus net assets.
We tailored the scope of our audit taking into account the types of investments within the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
Valuation of direct private investments Group and Parent.
Valuation of other investments namely investments in funds level 2 & 3, investment property and derivatives Group and Parent.
Gains losses on fair value investments Group and Parent.
Related party transactions Group and Parent.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industries in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements, including but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006 and section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, enquiries of management, review of minutes of meetings of those charged with governance for the Group and testing the compliance with section 1158 in the current year.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the Financial Statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 75 247149 RIT R&A pp073-pp082 26 02 2018 11:16 Page 76 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of direct private investments Group and We understood and evaluated the valuation methodology Parent applied, by reference to industry practice, and tested the techniques used by management in determining the fair Refer to page 28 Audit and Risk Committee Report, value of the investment portfolio.
pages 51 to 52 Accounting Policies and pages 63 to 65 For direct private investments, we have: notes.
compared valuations to recently completed We focused on the valuation of direct private transactions or recent offers where relevant: investments as the valuations are material, complex and include estimates and significant judgements.
assessed the validity of valuation models that applied comparable quoted company earnings and revenues The valuation of direct private investments are multiples by assessing the adjustments made to determined by management and the Directors and are reflect the differences between the quoted company based on the nature of the underlying business which and the investee company, and checked earnings and has been invested in.
The methods used include: revenues data from audited Financial Statements, Applying a multiple to earnings and revenues: unaudited management accounts and or forecasts for the investee entities: Using a discounted cash flow model: and assessed the valuation models that applied a Using recent transaction prices and recent offers.
discounted cash flow analysis by agreeing forecasts input into the model to supporting management accounts and analysing the discount rate applied: obtained satisfactory explanations when challenging the assumptions made by management in the applicable valuation models: tested the mathematical accuracy of the valuation models: and read Valuation Committee papers and meeting minutes where the valuations of these investments were discussed and agreed.
This, together with our knowledge of the investee entities and the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation guidelines, enabled us to discuss with and challenge management as to the appropriateness of the methodology and key inputs used, and the valuations themselves.
We found that managements valuations of direct private investments were supported by the available evidence, and in particular that the assumptions used were appropriate based on the investees circumstances, and actual and expected financial performance.
76 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc 247149 RIT R&A pp073-pp082 26 02 2018 11:16 Page 77 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of other investments namely investments in For investments in funds level 2 & 3, we have: funds level 2 & 3, investment property and derivatives confirmed the latest available fund valuation with Group and Parent underlying fund managers or administrators: and Refer to page 28 Audit and Risk Committee Report, tested transactions since the date of the latest pages 51 to 53 Accounting Policies and pages62 to 66 available fund valuation where the valuation used by notes.
management was not coterminous with the Balance Sheet date.
The valuation of investments in funds level 2 & 3 are determined by the underlying fund manager.
The For investments in level 3 funds we have also: valuations are provided to the Group and assessed by assessed prior year valuations which were based on management.
The valuations of level 3 funds are unaudited net asset statements by reference to their material, complex and include estimates and significant respective audited Financial Statements: and judgements as these funds consist principally of direct private investments.
The valuations of level 2 funds are for new fund investments invested in the year, we material and are the most significant part of the obtained and assessed the due diligence performed investment portfolio.
We also focused on the valuation of investment property For investment property, we have: and derivatives as the valuation assumptions used to fair compared the valuation methodology to the best value these investments do not have observable market practice set out in the RICS Valuation Global inputs that reflect quoted prices in active markets, and Standards 2017 and the RICS Valuation Professional are more subjective.
Standards UK January 2014 revised April 2015 : assessed the explanations for the assumptions made by management in the valuation: and tested the mathematical accuracy of the valuation models and verify the inputs into the models by agreeing them to third-party sources where applicable.
For derivatives, we have: recalculated the valuation of derivatives using independent pricing sources: and checked the terms to broker statements.
No material misstatements were identified by our testing of investments in funds levels 2 and 3, investment property and derivatives.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 77 247149 RIT R&A pp073-pp082 26 02 2018 11:16 Page 78 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Gains losses on fair value investments Group and Our testing over the gains losses on fair value Parent investments included: obtaining an understanding of, and then testing the Refer to pages 51 to 52 Accounting Policies and valuation process as set out in the earlier key audit page 54 notes.
matters, to ascertain whether unrealised gains losses We focused on the accuracy and completeness of were appropriately calculated: gains losses on fair value investments.
agreeing purchases and sales of investments during Gains losses on investments represent changes in the the period to trade tickets, call and distributions fair value of investments over the financial year and notices, and bank statements: gains losses made on the disposal of investments.
Fair recalculating gains and losses based on the valuation value movements that are unrealised are based on the movement in investments over the year: and change in investment valuations.
Valuations other than listed investments are subjective.
This, combined with assessing journal entries relating to investment the size of the gains losses on fair value investments, gains losses for any entries not covered in our testing made this a key audit matter.
No material misstatements were identified by our testing.
Related party transactions Group and Parent Our testing over related parties included: assessing managements process for identifying Refer to pages 28 to 29 Audit and Risk Committee related parties and related party transactions, which Report and pages 66 to 67 notes.
included maintaining up to date records of parties We focused on this matter due to the nature and number related to the Group and to the Groups Board of of related party transactions.
The complexity and extent Directors: of these arrangements means that there is a risk that not evaluating managements listing of related parties and all related party transactions are identified and disclosed related parties transactions for completeness based in the Financial Statements.
on our knowledge gained from the audit: reading minutes of the Conflicts Committee, a committee comprising of independent non-executive Directors who monitor all arrangements with related parties: testing related party transactions to supporting documentation: obtaining written confirmation from the Parent Company of the list of all related parties: and performing scanning analytics for possible additional related party transactions.
We found no unidentified related parties or inconsistencies between the reported related party transactions and our testing in this area or the rest of our audit.
78 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc 247149 RIT R&A pp073-pp082 26 02 2018 11:16 Page 79 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
We audited the Financial Statements of 6 subsidiaries and the Parent Company which together account for 100% of the Groups income, 100% of its profit before tax, and 100% of net assets.
This, together with procedures performed over the consolidation, has provided the evidence we need for our opinion on the Group Financial Statements.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Overall materiality 50.0 million 2016: 47.1 million.
How we determined it 1.75% of Net Assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We have assessed materiality based on a percentage of net assets, as this is the primary metric focused on by investors.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we determined a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality across components was 2,200 and 1,051,600, and was equal to a local statutory audit materiality that was less than our overall group materiality and that we considered appropriate for our group audit.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 2.5 million Group audit 2016: 2.4 million and 2.4 million Parent Company audit 2016: 2.3 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We have nothing material to respect of the Directors statement in the Financial Statements about whether the add or to draw attention to.
Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in However, because not all preparing the Financial Statements and the Directors identification of any material future events or conditions uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going can be predicted, this concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the statement is not a Financial Statements.
guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 79 247149 RIT R&A pp073-pp082 26 02 2018 11:16 Page 80 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Report & Accounts other than the Financial Statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the Financial Statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on pages 14 to 17 of the Report & Accounts that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Report & Accounts that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 17 of the Report & Accounts as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules 80 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc 247149 RIT R&A pp073-pp082 26 02 2018 11:16 Page 81 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 26, that they consider the Report & Accounts taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Report & Accounts on pages 28 to 30 describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 26, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 81 247149 RIT R&A pp073-pp082 26 02 2018 11:16 Page 82 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of RIT Capital Partners plc Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment We were appointed by the Directors to audit the Financial Statements for the year ended 2 August 1988 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 30 years, covering the years ended 2 August 1988 to 31 December 2017.
Alison Morris Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 February 2018 82 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc 247149 RIT R&A pp083-end 26 02 2018 11:17 Page 83 Other Information 31 December 2017
