STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PORTFOLIO Platinum Group Metals PGMs Coal Our Platinum business held through a 78% interest in Australia Metallurgical coal Anglo American Platinum Limited is the worlds leading Our Tier 1 coal assets include the Moranbah North 88% PGM producer, extracting and processing around 40% ownership and Grosvenor 100% ownership metallurgical of all newly mined platinum.
It occupies the pre-eminent coal mines, both located in Queensland.
The mines are position, in terms of production, mining, processing and underground longwall operations and produce hard refining assets, and the quality and size of its resource base, coking coal.
We are the worlds third largest exporter of in the worlds largest PGM deposit the Bushveld Complex metallurgical coal and our coal operations in Australia serve in South Africa.
It also has a significant stake in one of the customers throughout Asia and the Indian sub-continent, worlds largest PGM deposits outside of South Africa, on Europe and South America.
More stringent environmental the Great Dyke in Zimbabwe.
Our flagship platinum mine, and safety regulations in China have led to the closure of a Mogalakwena, is the highest-margin primary platinum number of coal mines there, resulting in increased demand producer in the industry and, as the only large open pit and prices for high quality coking coal, such as that PGM mine globally, is at the centre of a more flexible, produced in our Australian mines.
competitive and lower risk business.
South Africa Platinum is continuing its ongoing repositioning around a Excluding the Eskom-tied operations, we own and operate leaner, best in class operating footprint at the Mogalakwena five thermal coal mines in South Africa, and jointly manage and Amandelbult mines in South Africa, and Unki mine the Mafube mine with Exxaro.
In South Africa, we supply in Zimbabwe, alongside its joint venture interests in the both the export and domestic energy markets and, from Kroondal, Mototolo and Modikwa mines in South Africa.
the Richards Bay Coal Terminal, we export throughout the Atlantic, Mediterranean and Asia-Pacific regions.
Demand for PGMs is forecast to increase over time, given the ongoing trend towards cleaner-emission vehicles, Colombia driven by increasingly stringent global emissions legislation.
In Colombia, Anglo American, BHP and Glencore each have Increasing demand by the automotive industry is likely to a one-third shareholding in Cerrejn, one of the countrys be augmented by growing opportunities for emerging new largest thermal coal exporters.
applications, including hybrid and hydrogen fuel cell electric Nickel vehicles, while emerging countries such as India offer the Our Nickel business is well placed to serve the global potential of developing, from a relatively low base, into stainless steel industry, which depends on nickel and drives significant platinum jewellery markets.
demand for it, and to benefit from demand for batteries for Our business is well positioned to proactively stimulate electric vehicles.
Our assets both 100% owned are in demand for platinum, including through targeted campaigns Brazil, with two ferronickel production sites: Barro Alto and in emerging jewellery markets: creating new investment Codemin, in the state of Gois.
demand for the metal as a store of value: and through direct Portfolio restructuring in the year investment in a number of companies developing new We will continue to refine and upgrade our asset portfolio technologies that are expected to drive industrial demand as a matter of course in order to ensure that our capital is for PGMs.
deployed effectively to generate enhanced and sustainable Iron ore and manganese returns for our shareholders.
Iron ore Anglo American has restructured significantly over the Anglo Americans iron ore operations provide customers last four years and, as a result, upgraded the overall quality with niche, high iron content ore, a large percentage of of its portfolio of mining assets since 2013, moving from which is direct-charge product for blast furnaces.
In South 68assets to 36 at the end of 2017.
This transformation has Africa, we have a majority share 69.7% in Kumba Iron Ore, been achieved through extensive operational self-help and where the Sishen and Kolomela mines produce leading other efficiency work, together with the sale, placing onto quality lump ore and also a premium fine ore.
The lump iron care and maintenance and closure of assets, resulting in a ore produced from Kumbas operations is in particular step-change in Anglo Americans operational performance, demand, and commands a premium price, owing to its profitability and cash flow generation.
excellent physical strength and high iron content.
Disposals announced and completed In Brazil, we have developed the integrated Minas-Rio During 2017, we completed the disposal of our 83.3% operation 100% ownership, consisting of an open pit mine interest in the Dartbrook coal mine Metallurgical Coal and beneficiation plant in Minas Gerais, which produces a to Australian Pacific Coal Limited, our 42.5% interest in high quality pellet feed product, offering a high iron content the Pandora mine Platinum and certain Amandelbult and low levels of contaminants.
The iron ore produced is resources Platinum.
In February 2018, we completed transported through a 529 kilometre pipeline to the the disposal of Platinums 85% interest in Union Mine and Ferroport iron ore handling and shipping facilities at the port 50.1% interest in Masa Chrome Company Proprietary of Au, in which Anglo American has a 50% shareholding.
Limited in South Africa to a subsidiary of Siyanda Resources Manganese Proprietary Limited.
In manganese, we have a 40% share in Samancor Holdings, with operations based in South Africa and Australia.
18 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Anglo American entered into several sale agreements, the completions of which are subject to, among other things, QUELLAVECO regulatory approvals, including our 88.2% interest in the Drayton thermal coal mine and Drayton South project in Quellaveco is one of the worlds most significant Australia to Malabar Coal Limited.
The sale of the Eskomundeveloped copper deposits.
With Ore Reserves tied domestic thermal coal operations in South Africa to estimated at 1.3 billion tonnes, containing a wholly owned subsidiary of Seriti Resources Holdings 1 7.5million tonnes of copper, it is expected to Proprietary Limited is expected to complete on 1 March operate in the lower half of the industry cost curve.
In addition, in January 2018, we agreed the sale of Anglo American owns 81.9% of Quellaveco, with the New Largo thermal coal project and Old New Largo the balance owned by Mitsubishi Corporation.
closed colliery in South Africa to New Largo Coal Given that Quellaveco is a major greenfield Proprietary Limited, which is owned by Seriti Resources development, Anglo American intends to further Holdings Proprietary Limited, Coalzar Proprietary Limited syndicate its shareholding to support a broader and the Industrial Development Corporation.
funding capacity and project risk profile.
Other portfolio changes The project involves the mining of this extensive The Group has ceased, or is ceasing, production at a copper and molybdenum deposit which is located number of operations.
Operations that have been closed at an altitude of around 3,500 metres in the Moquegua or placed onto care and maintenance in recent years Region of southern Peru.
The Quellaveco site is include: Snap Lake DeBeers and Peace River Coal 34 kilometres east of the town of Moquegua and Metallurgical Coal, both in Canada: and Twickenham 165 kilometres northeast of the proposed port facility platinum mine and Thabazimbi Iron Ore, both in near Ilo.
The operation will use open pit mining and South Africa.
Also in South Africa, the Bokoni mine processing by flotation to produce copper concentrate, Platinum was placed onto care and maintenance by as well as molybdenum and silver by-products.
The Platinums joint venture partner, Atlatsa Resources, copper concentrate will then be transported to the during the year.
Damtshaa diamond mine in Botswana, which was We have made considerable progress re-scoping placed onto care and maintenance from 1 January 2016, Quellaveco to enhance its economic case, while successfully achieved a restart in the fourth quarter of 2017, maintaining our social commitments.
The project has obtained all the major permits Having exceeded its original diamond production forecast required for construction and operation, and has a over its expected lifespan, DeBeers Victor mine in high level of acceptance from the community and the Canada is due to close in 2019, when the open pit will local, regional and national governments.
This level have been depleted.
of socio-political acceptance has been achieved and maintained by meeting a series of commitments Projects arising from an extensive Dialogue Table process, Projects ramping up as well as a number of ongoing social projects in the A number of projects across the Group have been delivered surrounding communities.
The Dialogue Table was since 2016, and are contributing to operating cash flows, a unique initiative launched by the Regional including Barro Alto Nickel, Grosvenor Metallurgical Government of Moquegua in which local and national Coal, Gahcho Ku fide Beers and Minas-Rio Iron Ore. stakeholders, authorities, and representatives from Together, these assets contributed $686 million of Anglo American worked together during an 18-month underlying EBITDA in 2017. process to reach agreements on three main areas: Future project options water resources, environment and social responsibility.
Strict value criteria are applied to the assessment of It is expected that the feasibility study for Quellaveco AngloAmericans portfolio of future growth options.
Where will be reviewed by Anglo Americans Board in 2018, appropriate, we aim to seek partners for the development for development consideration.
of major greenfield projects and are likely to not commit to more than one such project at any given time.
The Group will continue to maintain optionality to progress with value accretive projects, should market conditions and capital availability permit.
Although no new major capital projects were approved during 2017, we continue to retain and advance select studies, abiding by our established social commitments and managing the costs of maintaining those options appropriately.
One such option is the Quellaveco project in southern 1 Please refer to the Peru one of the worlds largest untapped copper Ore Reserves and orebodies.
The projects feasibility study is expected to Mineral Resources be presented to the Board for development consideration During the Boards visit to Peru in October 2017, directors were given a tour Report 2017 for of the Quellaveco project site by project vice president Domenico Pelliccia additional details.
The Board expects to review the projects feasibility study during 2018.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 19 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC ELEMENT: INNOVATION INNOVATION Across every aspect of our business, we are thinking innovatively about how we work to ensure the safety of our people, enhance our sustainability performance, and deliver industry-leading margins and returns.
We are developing a replicable model of differentiated practices and capabilities that is designed to deliver superior value to all our stakeholders from assets that are in our hands.
HIGHLIGHTS KEY PRIORITIES MATERIAL MATTERS Continue to advance the GROUP PRODUCTION GROWTH DISCUSSED IN THIS SECTION: implementation of the Operating COPPER EQUIVALENT BASIS Safety and Health Model across our assets to realise Environmental impacts and climate change further cost and productivity 5% Operational and cost performance improvements Meeting our commitments to Eliminate fatal injuries through the government and society VALUE OF COST AND VOLUME implementation of the Operational IMPROVEMENTS IN THE YEAR Risk Management programme Political and regulatory Conduct baseline assessments HIGHLIGHTS PILLARS OF VALUE to support ambitious new $1.
1 billion greenhouse gas, energy, Production Environment water and biodiversity targets CUMULATIVE AVOIDED ENERGY COSTS articulated in the Anglo American Cost Socio-political OVER THE PAST THREE YEARS Sustainability Strategy.
Safety and Health For our KPIs $260 million See page 34 From resource exploration and discovery, to delivering efficient than conventional methods.
For example, our products into our customers hands, FutureSmart our tests show that there is a possibility of reducing Mining is our innovation-led approach to sustainable comminution energy by 30% over current methods.
The technologies that we are developing and We also invest in the development of low-emission deploying to fundamentally change the way we technologies using PGMs notably platinum-based extract and process our products, as well as identify hydrogen fuel cell technology.
To accelerate the potential, will provide the next step-change in development of mining fuel cell electric vehicles and operating performance creating significant safety trains, we are exploring innovative ways to store hydrogen improvements, and major energy, water and capital using liquid organic hydrogen carrier technology.
Our ambition is, where possible, to completely remove fresh water from our mineral processing.
An important area SUSTAINABLE VALUE THROUGH INNOVATION of focus is low-cost dry-tailings disposal because water sent to tailings often represents a mines largest water loss.
Through FutureSmart Mining, we are looking for Fine-particle slurries in particular are difficult to dewater opportunities that will deliver value quickly, while at the same and current dry disposal options have prohibitive capital time developing longer term solutions that will offer benefits, and operating costs.
We are exploring low-cost methods to not only across our own operations, but across the entire minimise the amount of water sent to tailings.
We apply open innovation principles to bring together stakeholders with different perspectives to For Anglo American, innovation extends beyond the mine.
reframe challenges and co-create solutions that will benefit It considers the entire mining ecosystem from exploration, the entire industry.
right through to mine closure and rehabilitation and considers the perspectives of all our stakeholders, at Two key areas where our technology-led innovation is every stage.
already making a real difference are energy and water efficiency.
Comminution the grinding and crushing of rock We believe that one day all mines will be both carbonand is the largest consumer of energy in mineral processing.
water-neutral as well as low cost and scalable, with a Through FutureSmart Mining, we are investing in novel minimal footprint that is harmonised with the needs of our mineral processing technologies that are more energyhost communities and that FutureSmart Mining is our pathway to that future.
20 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DELIVERING STABLE OPERATING FOUNDATIONS The framework is built around three key components: Our unique Operating Model is designed to support the Operational planning ensures that we have confidence transformation of asset performance.
The focus on in the targets we set and in our ability to develop the stable and predictable delivery provides a foundation for operating tactical plans to meet business expectations continuous and sustainable operating improvement.
This Work management focuses on driving the right behaviours approach has resulted in step-change advances in safety and routines across the approval, planning, scheduling, and productivity, and lower costs, and is embedded resourcing and execution of work programmes throughout the business.
Feedback ensures that the measures we use are The Operating Model is a peopleand systems-intensive well-defined andcontrolled and that appropriate framework that is designed to deliver and embed change.
It provides our people with a common language and way of working across the business, bringing clarity to the work While there are three components to the Operating Model, we do and ensuring that roles and accountabilities are to date the focus has largely been on work management.
clearly defined across the operations.
The Operating Model follows a phased implementation journey, starting at the project set-up phase and ending with the stabilisation and sustaining phases.
By the end of 2017, various components of the Operating Model had been fully or partially implemented at 14 operations.
TOWARDS A WATERLESS MINE Material matters Working to eliminate our use of fresh water in mining processes: benefiting our operations, the environment and our host communities by: Measuring and managing water evaporation at our current tailings storage facilities Minimising the volume of water used in mineral production Working towards dry, stackable tailings.
At Mogalakwena Anglo American aims to eliminate the use of fresh water capital and operating costs.
In partnership with an platinum mine, in from mining processes.
Our work towards a waterless innovation leader, we are conducting promising research, South Africas water-stressed Limpopo mine focuses on evaporation measurement and dry testing bespoke polymers to separate water from fine province, technical lead tailings disposal, exploring innovative approaches to dry slurries.
This lower-cost dewatering technology creates Dean Bothma inspects fibre-optic sensing separation, and non-aqueous processing.
equipment, enabling accurate, real-time Mining operations store water in dams to ensure a To minimise the amount of water sent to tailings in the monitoring of all water reliable water supply and enable recycling, but first place, we are also exploring innovative methods for flows mine-wide.
This is the worlds first evaporation accounts for 10% to 25% of water lost.
We more targeted comminution crushing and grinding ore permanent installation are testing a new technology developed by Australias to the required particle size, dewatering waste far earlier using this type of Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research in the process.
Early estimates indicate the potential for distributed sensing technology.
Organisation CSIRO to more accurately measure and a 30% to 40% reduction in water used per unit of manage evaporation rates.
Significant water losses are also incurred in tailings We are confident these dry processing techniques will disposal.
Fine particle slurries are particularly difficult to allow us to re-use 80% of process water, moving us dewater and current dry disposal options have prohibitive closer towards the waterless mine.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 21 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC ELEMENT: INNOVATION At our diamond operations, roll-out of our Operating COST AND PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENTS Model is at various stages.
At Jwaneng, in Botswana, the We have continued to lift the performance of our assets work management component is in the stabilisation phase.
through the implementation of our Operating Model and, Also in Botswana, at Letlhakanes tailings retreatment plant, as a result, have delivered $1.1 billion of cost and volume work management implementation has moved into the improvements in 2017, beyond the target we set of site-readiness phase where all systems in support of the $1.0 billion.
Operating Model are tested and accepted.
In South Africa, at Venetia mine, implementation of the Operating Model Across the Group, production increased by 5% on a copper commenced in the second half of 2017, and is now focused equivalent basis, driven by improved performances at on operational planning.
At Gahcho Ku in Canada, DeBeers 22%, Kumba Iron Ore 8% and Iron Ore implementation of the Operating Model is well advanced, Brazil 4%, partly offset by lower production at the Coal 1 with the integrated execution schedule for mining going live operations -4%.
Work is currently under way to define the At fide Beers, rough diamond production increased by scope for work management in mine maintenance heavy 22% to 33.5 million carats 2016: 27.3 million carats, mining equipment.
reflecting stronger trading conditions and the contribution At our Los Bronces copper operation in Chile, work from the Gahcho Ku mine in Canada, which entered management in the mine was stabilised during the third commercial production in March 2017. quarter of 2017, with accountability for sustaining it being Kumba delivered a strong operational performance, been handed over to the line management team.
The increasing iron ore production by 8% to 45.0 Mt focus in the final quarter was on operational planning.
2016: 41.5Mt, following improvements in mining At Platinum in South Africa, implementation of the productivity resulting from fleet efficiencies and higher Operating Model at Amandelbult complex started in plant yields.
In Brazil, our Minas-Rio iron ore operation early 2017, with work management and feedback under produced 16.8 Mt wet basis, 4% higher 2016: 16.1 Mt, way at its Dishaba and Tumela mines.
Mogalakwena has as the operation continued to ramp up its current implemented all components of the Operating Model.
Operational planning is currently in the stabilisation phase, Copper production was in line with the prior year at 579,300 with work management being sustained by the line tonnes 2016: 577,100 tonnes, with solid performances at management team at the North and South concentrators, Los Bronces and Collahuasi partly offset by the impact as well as the mine.
At the converting plant, implementation of lost production at El Soldado, owing to the temporary of the work management component is in the sustaining suspension of mining operations in the first half.
Rustenburg Base Metals Refinerys implementation of work management is currently in the Our Metallurgical Coal business in Australia produced gap-analysis phase and some sections of the refinery 19.7 Mt of metallurgical coal, 6% lower than the prior year are in critical-issue resolution.
This was driven by the divestment of implementation of the Operating Model is in the project Foxleigh mine PCI producer, although was largely offset set-up phase.
by a strong performance at the underground longwall operations, which produced 12.3 Mt, 14% higher than At Kumbas iron ore operations in South Africa, Sishen the prior year 2016: 10.8 Mt.
Coal South Africas export has been focusing on a review of the service and production thermal coal production declined by 3% to 18.6 Mt strategies for the plant, as well as subsequent refinement 2016: 19.1 Mt, mainly owing to operational challenges of the work-scheduling system, which has identified at Khwezela mine, and the planned transition to a new pit significant opportunities to improve the planning process.
The Coal South Africa operations were also Meanwhile, at Kolomela, the Operating Model continues to affected by self-enforced safety stoppages, following three deliver above scheduled-work and compliance targets as fatalities in the year.
part of the work management component.
Group copper equivalent unit costs increased by 7%, driven At Minas-Rio in Brazil, work management for mine mainly by stronger producer currencies.
Excluding the maintenance heavy mining equipment has been impact of foreign exchange, the cost increase was 2%.
handed over to the line management team.
Work is Lower unit costs were realised at Platinum in rand terms, as well advanced in incorporating all mine production work a result of ongoing cost-saving initiatives, and at DeBeers, into an integrated mining execution schedule.
Work where higher production and efficiency drives helped management implementation in the beneficiation plant reduce unit costs.
These efficiencies were offset, however, is progressing well and commenced in 2017 at the by higher costs across the Coal business which, in addition pipeline and port facilities, where operational planning to experiencing Khwezelas operational challenges, for the mining complex is under way.
encountered lower volumes at Dawson and the effects At Metallurgical Coal in Australia, the Operating Model of the extended longwall move at Grosvenor both 1 Metallurgical and is in the pre-start phase of implementation.
Each of the Metallurgical Coal.
export thermal operations is concentrating on developing the businesscoal production While we have delivered a material operational turnaround structure performance models that form part of operational from South Africa in recent years, we believe there is still significant value to andCerrejn.
planning, with the full project expected to start during 2018. bedelivered from the continued implementation of our Operating Model.
In 2018, we expect to deliver a further $800 million of benefit and are targeting, by 2022, an additional $3-4billion annual underlying EBITDA run-rate improvement.
22 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND HEALTH further integrating safety within our Operating Model, thereby improving the planning and scheduling of work Protecting the safety and health of employees and and tasks.
Targets relating to the delivery of Operational contractors at work is one of the most fundamental human Risk Management ORM form part of management rights issues facing Anglo American and other mining incentives, and there is a growing recognition that safety companies.
While protecting our workforce from harm and productivity are complementary.
Anglo Americans is a moral imperative for us, our focus on zero harm also safety results affect the performance-based remuneration constitutes a direct investment in the productivity of the of all employees in the business.
A safe and healthy workforce contributes to an engaged, motivated and productive workforce that prevents Promoting health and well-being operational stoppages, and reduces potential legal liabilities.
Our health-related activities focus on mitigating occupational health risks in the workplace, supporting Ensuring a safe working environment the overall health and well-being of our workforce, and In 2017, we regret to report that nine employees and promoting community health initiatives in the areas where contractors lost their lives in work-related activities at we operate.
In 2017, we updated our occupational health SouthAfrican operations managed by Anglo American.
strategy, setting clear objectives and targets for our health Ensuring safety at South African mines remains a outcomes in 2022.
Our primary goal is to ensure that there particular issue across the industry.
We continue to focus are no new cases of occupational disease as a result of on further strengthening our safety culture and controls exposure to health hazards at Anglo American.
at more challenging mines so that we eliminate workplace fatalities.
The number of new cases of occupational disease reported was 96 2016: 111.
A reduction in cases owing Our intense focus on preventing harm in the workplace to the divestment of Platinums Rustenburg operations in was reflected in an encouraging decrease in the number South Africa was countered by new cases of noise-induced and severity of injuries recorded at our operations compared hearing loss and coal workers pneumoconiosis because of with 2016.
This included an 8% decline in our lost-time improved reporting.
injury LTI frequency rate and an 11% reduction in our total recordable case frequency rate.
Average days lost per Our workplace tuberculosis TB and HIV AIDS LTI reduced by 15%.
programmes continue to show encouraging results.
As at the end of 2017, 83% of employees knew their All incidents resulting in loss of life or a critical injury are HIV status.
While this fell short of our target of 90%, subject to rigorous investigation and management action 76,000 members of our workforce including contractors to prevent similar incidents happening again.
Our TB incidence rate among Throughout 2017, all operations continued to implement employees in South Africa decreased again in 2017, and safety improvement plans, with a focus on effective on average, remains well below the 2017 South African management of critical controls required to manage national rate of 781 per 100,000. significant safety risks, learning from high potential incidents The number of employees who have died from TB four and high potential hazards, culture and safe behaviour and AIDS 12 has decreased considerably in recent years.
programmes, and leadership engagement and The reduction is a result of changes in the business portfolio, accountability.
These will remain priorities in 2018, with the as well as improved anti-retroviral uptake, active case aim of ensuring that each of our sites follows a consistent management and HIV TB awareness campaigns.
We have also made interventions aimed at Lost-time injuries, medical treatment cases and New cases of occupational disease 20132017 total recordable case frequency rate 20132017 250 Injuries TRCFR 2,500 1.2 200 1.0 2,000 150 0.8 1,500 100 0.6 1,000 0.4 50 500 0.2 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 0 Noise-induced hearing loss 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Respiratory disease Lost-time injuries Musculoskeletal disorder Medical treatment cases TRCFR Other Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 23 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC ELEMENT: INNOVATION MARKETING PRODUCTS FOR FULL VALUE With our planned growth and the continued increase in external regulatory requirements, risk management Our Marketing Model maximises the value from our mineral remains a top priority in ensuring the risk factors that resources and market positions.
We do this by seeking to affect Marketing including price, credit, operational, fully understand and address our customers specific needs and regulatory are transparent and comprehensively and through leveraging our capabilities in the financial and managed, thereby helping to maximise value for the Group.
physical markets to drive the right commercial decisions across the value chain from mine to market.
In 2017, our Marketing business continued to make good A WIN-WIN IN SHIPPING progress on its strategy, which is designed to create maximum value across the entire mining value chain.
When the Cape Orchid loaded its first shipment These activities contribute to the Group in a number of of Kumba iron ore through the dedicated export ways: improving EBIT: enhancing cash flow through tighter terminal at Saldanha Bay in September 2015, working capital management: better riskand control this was a major event for South Africa and management: and stimulating sustainable demand, in for Anglo American.
particular for PGMs, through an innovative market development and investment programme.
The vessel, which can carry up to 170,000 tonnes of iron ore, is jointly owned by South African and Focusing on our principal strategic levers to generate Japanese business interests and is the first merchant additional EBIT across the Group, we continued to deliver ship to be registered under the South African flag value through: since 1985, and the first non-government, South Sales and marketing excellence: In 2017, we grew our African-flagged ship for more than a decade to take customer base in number and by geography.
Throughout local cadets on board.
the year we sold all available production while proactively As the Cape Orchids first customer, and through managing a number of supply challenges, including finding chartering other South African-flagged ships, new markets for different grades of material, the purchase AngloAmerican has signalled its intent to assist of third-party volumes to blend with our own material in in reviving the countrys presence in the global order to fulfil commitments and, in some instances, maritime economy, a sector in which South Africas renegotiating customer requirements.
Close customer participation had been declining for many years.
relationships continue to be central to our success, as is At the same time, and through an emphasis on our ongoing focus on marketing intelligence and analytics.
employing local people where we can, we are These activities again generated a large proportion of contributing to job creation and training, particularly Marketings value for the Group.
in the Northern Cape where jobs are scarce.
Value chain optimisation: Integrated sales and Using ships such as the Cape Orchid, and the second operations planning ISOP is Marketings process for South African flagged vessel, the 186,000dwt planning the movement of product from mines finishedCape Enterprise, enables Anglo American to take goods stockpiles until delivery to the end-customer.
ISOP advantage of a lower cost structure for vessels under is embedded across all our products and helps to ensure the South African registry entering the country.
By we make the most of our mineral resources in the light of attracting more ships into the South African registry, market and contractual conditions and material available, the direct consequence is achieving job growth and while capitalising on our logistics capabilities and development in the local maritime economy.
broadly, such a policy is directly in line with our own In addition to these activities, we again expanded our goals as a business to unlock more value, both for the shipping activities, shipping record volumes across our Group and our other stakeholders, throughout our bulk-commodity portfolio on a CFR basis and increasing mining journey from mine to end-customer.
Expanding our customer offering through trading and third-party sourcing: Creating our own capability to access financial and third-party physical markets, thereby broadening our customer proposition.
Building on previous strong performance and increasing experience, we have expanded our trading and third-party sourcing activities in thermal coal, copper and iron ore, and developed our financial toolkit to enable new value opportunities, manage risks and optimise our use of working capital.
Good progress is being made with market development and new market investment activities, and, in particular, the The Cape Orchid, which can carry up to 170,000 tonnes of iron ore, is one of the vessels used by Anglo American to ship the commodity from work to support the commercialisation of fuel cell electric South Africa to Asia.
Chartering South Africa-registered vessels is creating vehicles and related hydrogen technology.
In 2017, we value over and above commercial returns notably, fostering employment and training opportunities in the Northern Cape, one of South Africas became one of the founding members of the Hydrogen poorer provinces.
Council a global initiative of 28 leading energy, transport and industry companies with a united vision and ambition for hydrogen technologies to foster the energy transition to a lower carbon future.
24 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report SUPPLY CHAIN DISCOVERY Over the past decade, Supply Chain has evolved from Building on the Groups strategy and long track record a decentralised, business unit focused model to an of exploration success, Anglo American has launched integrated model with a functional focus.
The integration a fundamentally revitalised discovery strategy that is of procurement teams across the function ensures that we enhancing our position as a discoverer of superior-value collaborate and share knowledge at a global level.
This gives deposits that have the potential to transform the production us the advantage of consistency in processes, economies profile of the Group over time, and which play a vital part in of scale and greater scope for efficiencies and value delivering a sustainable future.
opportunities based on centralised procurement.
The key elements of our discovery strategy are: Supply Chain is the primary interface with Anglo Americans Quality discovery portfolio supplier base, who are key stakeholders in the business.
We aim to build and maintain a robust discovery portfolio, Through collaboration with the Groups Technical and including: Sustainability function, Supply Chain works with suppliers to develop and deliver the latest technological innovations Near-asset projects: a focus on the extensive mineral in all areas of the mining value chain.
The function has tenure around Anglo Americans existing operations recently embarked on a three-year journey called Innovate Greenfield projects: identifying and securing extensive Supply that aims to achieve breakthrough outcomes in mineral tenure covering strategic, highly prospective, safety, people, sustainability, digitisation and interface with search space in established and frontier settings.
We are focused on the discovery of mineral deposits that Supplier innovation are capable of delivering sustainable and superior returns Working with key suppliers to develop joint technology on a material scale, and which provide greater optionality roadmaps is a core activity for Supply Chain.
with the Technical team, a number of initiatives, including drill automation, payload optimisation, fuel consumption Scientific innovation reduction and blast-accuracy management systems, have By applying a leading technical understanding of the been implemented, with an estimated value potential of concepts of geoscience throughout its scales, we aim to more than $130 million.
identify and explore the Earths most prospective ground.
A combination of established and novel proprietary Value creation and cost reduction technologies is crucial to Anglo Americans track record Value creation and cost reduction remain a focus for of mineral discoveries in new settings and beneath the Supply Chain, with the major drivers of these benefits cover of overlying material such as rock or sands.
being the global and regional supply framework agreements established with key partners and our concentration on a People and thought leadership number of initiatives designed to reduce life-cycle costs The Geosciences discipline within Anglo American is now of fixed plant, mobile equipment and operational services.
consolidated across the Group, including near-asset The focus on working capital continues to deliver and greenfield discovery, projects, and operations.
seamless organisation of the discipline supports a greater technical understanding of our world class assets.
This is a Inclusive procurement and responsible sourcing strategic advantage that is being applied to gain maximum An inclusive supply chain is central to our value-creation benefit in both near-asset and greenfield discovery work.
strategy and we strive to deliver inclusive procurement that goes beyond legislation and makes a real, positive difference to our host communities.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND CLIMATE CHANGE Anglo Americans Responsible Sourcing Standard for Many of the environmental impacts of mining are borne by Suppliers articulates easy to understand performance communities around our mining operations, while others requirements for all the Groups suppliers.
Through supplier have to be considered in the context of the contribution to self-assessments, audits and our supplier engagement global challenges such as climate change.
Anglo Americans programme, we identify and address supply chain risks and sustainability strategy sets out our commitment to areas for improvement.
Since 2016, suppliers across our demonstrating leadership in environmental stewardship.
various global procurement categories, who collectively By 2030, we aim to: account for more than 22% of our total supplier expenditure, have been requested to complete self-assessments against Reduce greenhouse gas GHG emissions by 30% against the standard.
Where risks have been flagged, the respective a 2016 baseline and improve energy efficiency by 30% suppliers were requested to undertake third-party audits.
Achieve a 50% net reduction in freshwater abstraction A challenge for companies and suppliers is that there is no in water-scarce regions and recycle more than 85% of common approach to responsible sourcing among major the water we use mining companies, leading to duplication of effort for both Deliver net-positive biodiversity outcomes wherever customers and suppliers.
We are examining the lessons we operate.
from other sectors where good practice standards exist to see if there may be more efficient and robust approaches.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 25 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC ELEMENT: INNOVATION FIBRE OPTIC CABLE MONITORING OF TAILINGS DAMS HOW IT WORKS Fibre optic cable technology enables near-real-time measurement of parameters such as temperature and strain.
Based on data processing and interpretation, we can evaluate structural movements, seepage levels, and settlements in dams the latter up to sub-millimetre accuracy.
Real-time analysis data improves the monitoring of dam integrity by immediately alerting operations to potential problems, ensuring a faster remedial response.
Interpretation of data can then be used to better understand potential structural movements, long term deformation, and creep in dams and their foundations.
It can identify seepage or leakage detected through subtle changes in temperature.
Safe management of tailings dams is critical for Anglo American as failure or leakage can be catastrophic for local communities and the environment.
Tailings dams are also getting bigger as declining yields Fibre optic cable Anglo American is using innovative fibre optic cable technology is already require more ore to be mined to deliver the same technology to monitor and safeguard the integrity of being used at our amount of product.
operations in Chile to its tailings dams.
enable near-real-time At the Minas-Rio mine in Brazil, fibre optic cable measurement and The technology is already deployed in Chile and is being monitoring of tailings technology will be used to monitor and identify large introduced in Brazil and South Africa.
It will be tested in dam conditions, structural deformations in a concrete box culvert that including structural different environments and applications before it is rolled is part of the tailings dam spillway.
The culvert will, in movements, seepage out across 78 tailings storage facilities worldwide.
levels and the degree of coming years, be subjected to large loads as the dam settlement taking place.
The fibre optic cable monitoring initiative is part of is raised.
Understanding its performance and being Featured in the control room at Los Bronces Anglo Americans FutureSmart Mining approach to able to measure structural deformations will be Las Trtolas operation the innovative use of targeted technology to make crucial to monitoring risks associated with maintaining is tailings dam operator Carlos Onetto.
mines safer, more efficient and cost-effective.
Managing our environmental impacts Anglo American is investing in advanced technology The principal environmental risks facing our business are and partnerships to contribute positively to water associated with water security and quality, climate change preservation and work towards our vision of becoming and extreme weather, and mine closure.
We report a net water provider in our communities and operating extensively on our approach and performance related to waterless mines in water-scarce regions.
these and other material sustainability issues in our In 2017, we continued to implement and embed our new Sustainability Report.
water management standard and associated reporting Environmental incidents requirements.
The standard guides a risk-based, regional A steady decline over the past four years in the number approach to water management, in line with global best of environmental incidents reported indicates continued practice and the ICMM water reporting guidelines.
improvement in the management of environmental controls Tailings storage facilities across operations.
In 2017, no high impact Level 4 or Level 5 Tailings storage facilities are classified as one of incidents were reported for the third consecutive year.
Anglo Americans principal risks and are subject to Two Level 3 medium impact environmental incidents rigorous scrutiny and risk management.
2016: four Level 3 incidents were reported, though these resulted in no lasting harm to the environment.
Over the past three years, we have rolled out a new mineral residue management technical standard, which is now in Water the final stages of implementation for all the Groups tailings A large proportion of our operations are in regions with dams and water retaining dams.
The standard will move water-related risks.
Risks to the business include security the level of care for such facilities beyond compliance and and long term sustainability of supply: excess water towards internationally recognised best practice.
management, which can lead to unplanned discharges: and the impact of mining activities on water quality and the rights Additional measures to proactively identify risks include of other users within the catchment.
While our risk profile reviews of tailings facilities at Platinums independently improved in 2017, at least five sites are experiencing severe managed joint ventures and the upstream tailings dams water scarcity and nearly 50% of all sites are located in in our portfolio.
Critical controls at all facilities are audited regions that are water-stressed.
Since a high number of our internally by rotation, and each business unit is addressing assets are located in southern Africa, we have developed a priority issues that are identified.
External, independent collaborative water strategy for the region, which was technical review panels are in place at most of our launched in 2017. operations where there are mineral residue facilities with high consequence ratings: such review panels will be in place across the Group by mid-2018.
26 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Climate change Approximately 320 energy efficiency and businessAnglo American is seeking to respond to societys improvement projects saved 6.4 million GJ in energy expectations for greater transparency around climate consumption a 6% reduction relative to the projected change, expressed by initiatives such as the Aiming for A consumption in a BAU scenario in 2017. coalition and the recommendations of the Financial Stability The cumulative avoided energy costs under the ECOMAN Boards Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures.
programme over the past three years are estimated at Climate change governance $260million based on 2017 energy prices.
The energy The Sustainability Committee of the Board regularly efficiency projects we have implemented have a typical reviews progress against our climate change strategy, payback time of three years.
including specific progress against the Aiming for A resolution.
The chief executives performance scorecard MEETING OUR COMMITMENTS TO GOVERNMENT includes GHG-reduction and energy efficiency metrics, AND SOCIETY while a GHG-reduction target is included in the long term incentive scheme for executive level personnel.
As a major mining company, with the majority of our operations in developing countries, we are committed Strategy to supporting our host governments to achieve their We expect that climate change will affect our business in development goals.
We endeavour to design and execute three principal ways: regulation, taxation and the cost of our projects according to the highest social standards, decarbonising energy systems if passed on to consumers and to ensure that our presence in host countries leaves will have a financial impact: demand for PGMs and a positive lasting legacy.
copper critical products in enabling alternative energy technologies will increase, while coal is likely to feature This commitment is essential in order to effectively less prominently in the long term global energy mix: and the manage social risks and to maintain and strengthen our physical and social impacts of a changing climate may affect socio-political licence to operate.
our operations and host communities.
Managing our social performance There is also potential for a range of carbon pricing Our Social Way defines Anglo Americans governing and offset incentive policies to emerge in the medium framework for social performance.
Carbon pricing scenarios are factored into project requirements for all Anglo American-managed sites to investment decisions, and climate change risk and ensure that policies and systems are in place to engage adaptation assessments have been conducted at with affected communities so that we avoid, prevent and vulnerable operations.
mitigate adverse social impacts, and optimise development opportunities.
Each site is assessed annually against the Anglo American has taken decisive steps for more than Social Way requirements and is required to implement an a decade to contribute to the global effort to reduce improvement plan for requirements that are not met in full: emissions, while continuing to provide the materials progress is monitored at executive level on a quarterly that modern life requires.
Our climate change policy, basis.
Regrettably, in 2017, two operations each had serious launched in 2011, and updated in 2017, is available on non-compliances 2016: 0, which involved inadequate the AngloAmerican website.
human rights due diligence on security provision and Two key processes guide how we manage climate change insufficient evidence regarding emergency response risks: the ORM programme for operations, and the planning procedures.
The failure to adhere to required Investment Development Model for projects.
The ORM processes resulted in no negative human rights impacts guides operations on how to assess risk at each level of and the matter is being addressed as a priority.
activity, with tools to help identify priority unwanted events, Our industry-leading Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox and the controls we need to put in place and monitor to SEAT is used to improve operations understanding prevent those events.
of their positive and negative socio-economic effects, Targets and performance enhance stakeholder dialogue and the management Anglo Americans vision of carbon-neutral mining is of social issues, build our ability to support local sociosupported by the following targets: economic development, and foster greater transparency and accountability.
The current version of the SEAT toolkit, By 2020, achieve an 8% improvement in energy which has been in place since 2012, is being updated to use and a 22% saving in GHG emissions against align with international best practice and the Social Way.
projected business as usual BAU consumption Social instability leading to community unrest remains a By 2030, reduce our absolute energy intensity by challenge in South Africa, and particularly for our operations 30% and reduce GHG emissions by 30%, relative to in Limpopo province, which hosts several key platinum and 2016 levels.
To address this, we continue to seek to In 2017, Anglo American operations were responsible engage and work collaboratively with employees, trade for 18.0 Mt of COequivalent emissions CO e, unions and the South African government, and with 2 2 2016: 17.9 Mt CO e as GHG reductions resulting from communities around our mines.
We place a particular 2 divestments were offset by an increase in production, strategic focus on mitigating social conflict and promoting and associated coal-mine methane emissions, at socio-economic development across Limpopo.
Over the past two years we have been improving social GHG-emission savings in 2017 amounted to 4.8 Mt CO e incident and grievance management to enhance accuracy 2 a 21% reduction relative to the BAU projection.
The and consistency across the Group in identifying, reporting Groups total energy consumption declined to 97 million GJ and classifying social complaints and grievances.
Divestments and energy efficiency moderate to significant social incidents are reported to projects were the primary causes for the decrease.
the Board and included in the chief executives quarterly performance scorecard.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 27 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC ELEMENT: INNOVATION Engagement with faith groups Mine closure and rehabilitation With the rapid pace of societal change, we recognise the We design, plan and operate our mines with closure in need for our industry to engage with an ever wider range of mind, and plan for post-closure long term sustainability in stakeholders to understand the role we can play in long term consultation with communities and other stakeholders.
Several years ago we initiated an doing so, we aim to reduce long term risks and liabilities to exploratory dialogue with the global faith community to our business from an environmental and socio-economic seek their perspective on this topic.
What started as a very perspective, and to ensure that we leave a positive legacy positive initial dialogue with the Vatican has now broadened when our mines conclude their operational lives.
into an ecumenical engagement that continues at Our Mine Closure Toolbox provides a structured approach international, national, and local levels in a number of key to closure planning and management.
It aims to ensure that geographies.
the full spectrum of opportunities, risks and liabilities is Human rights effectively identified, that plans are fully costed, and that Our Human Rights policy and framework guide our provision is made on the balance sheet for closure.
approach to identifying and addressing our salient human We are progressively integrating mine closure planning rights risks, which are also integrated into the Social Way with our operational strategies.
This involves assessing and SEAT tools.
Operation-level due-diligence processes and identifying opportunities to make operational changes are a requirement of the Social Way and have now been that require no, or only modest, additional expenditure, and conducted at all sites.
These assessments will be reviewed which result in significantly reduced operational costs and annually.
The independent peace-building organisation closure liabilities.
A particular focus is placed on progressive International Alert has been a strategic partner in or concurrent rehabilitation.
strengthening our governance of human rights and security since 2010.
In accordance with the UKs Modern Slavery Act 2015, Global CSI expenditure by region we have published a Group statement on our website to $ 000 % demonstrate our approach to preventing modern slavery Africa 55,615 63 and human trafficking in our operations and supply chain.
Americas 30,334 34 Socio-economic contribution Australia 363 1 Developing thriving communities is a pillar of United Kingdom 444 1 Anglo Americans sustainability strategy.
Our targets Rest of World 1,192 1 include creating three indirect jobs for every direct job Total 87,948 at regional level by 2025, and five indirect jobs for every direct job by 2030.
Our integrated approach aims to enhance the productivity of the private and public sectors in the communities in which Global CSI expenditure by type we operate.
We have a strong focus on leveraging our value $ 000 % chains and expertise, concentrated on promoting local and Community 47,762 54 preferential procurement, enterprise development and development youth and workforce development, working with local Education and training 16,809 19 institutions to strengthen their capacity, maximising the Water and sanitation 11,079 13 socio-economic benefits from our own infrastructure, and delivering social investment that supports those most Health and welfare 4,116 5 in need.
Sports, art, culture 2,859 3 and heritage In 2017, $2.1 billion 23% of supplier expenditure was Other 2,217 3 with host communities 2016: $2.0 billion, 23%, while, Institutional 1,332 2 since 2008, our enterprise development programmes in capacity development Botswana, Brazil, Chile, South Africa and Peru have Environment 1,249 1 supported 64,291 businesses and created sustained Employee-matched 260 0 120,812 jobs.
giving and fundraising In 2017, Anglo Americans corporate social investment Disaster and 243 0 CSI expenditure in local communities, including by the emergency relief Anglo American Chairmans Fund and Zimele, totalled Energy and 22 0 $87.9 million 2016: $84.1 million.
This figure represents climate change 1.7% of underlying EBIT, less underlying EBIT of associates Total 87,948 and joint ventures.
Health and education are strategic focus areas in our sustainability strategy and CSI programme.
For more information on our policies, standards and principles, visit www.
com sustainability  28 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PEOPLE PEOPLE We create a sustainable competitive advantage by resourcing the Group with a capable and engaged workforce within a culture that fosters safety, inclusion, innovation and performance.
HIGHLIGHTS KEY PRIORITIES MATERIAL ISSUES Implement a consistent Organisation LEADERSHIP TRAINED DISCUSSED IN THIS SECTION: Model to maximise the effectiveness of IN ANGLO AMERICANS Workforce culture and capability our Operating Model CODE OF CONDUCT Meeting our commitments Proactively identify, develop and promote to government and society talent across the business 3,400 Political and regulatory Enhance analytical and workforce planning capabilities to anticipate changes in the HIGHLIGHTS PILLARS OF VALUE GRADUATES, BURSARS, nature of work APPRENTICES AND People TRAINEES SUPPORTED Promote an inclusive culture that Socio-political fosters safety, diversity, innovation and performance.
For our KPIs 2,209 See page 34 Our people are critical to all that we do.
The Resourcing the organisation with the best capability partnerships we build, both within Anglo American Equipping Anglo American with an engaged and productive and with our stakeholders locally and globally, workforce is essential for our success.
We aim to attract the are central to maintaining our regulatory and social best people in the industry and to facilitate professional and licences to operate and our sustained commercial personal development for our core disciplines.
Our continued delivery builds trust current and prospective employees capability, we consider: with our shareholders to ensure their ongoing technical skills and knowledge acquired through experience investment support.
and practice: mental processing ability: social process skills: and the degree of drive and commitment a person displays.
For our people, we create working environments and an inclusive and diverse culture that encourages and supports Managing talent and developing skills high performance and innovative thinking.
To resource our structure with the best capability, we need to have the right people in the right roles, and to align Our Organisation Model ensures we have the right people in workforce aspirations with our organisational goals.
the right roles doing the right value-adding work at the right time, with clear accountabilities minimising work duplication, We have developed a talent identification tool and process and increasing organisation capability and effectiveness.
that has been applied systematically across the Group during 2017.
This consistent approach to assessing and calibrating talent has enabled us to map our capability and WORKFORCE CULTURE AND CAPABILITY to better understand our risks and readiness for succession.
Effective and efficient organisation design We have identified and allocated employees into different Anglo Americans organisation design is built around strong, talent pools for development, with the aim of enabling product-focused operating units, supported by functions personal growth and increasing capability.
that provide value-adding expert leadership and ensure Providing development and training opportunities is vital effective governance in order to continuously improve in encouraging our people to grow in their work.
a range of external and internal development programmes This design aims to maximise the effectiveness of in use across the Group, investing more than $69 million on AngloAmericans Operating Model, promote the sharing training in 2017.
In an increasingly competitive market for of resources and consistent best-in-class standards across skills, we continue to invest in developing a pipeline of future operations, while investing in functional capacity in the talent through our support of 2,209 graduates, bursars, strategic areas that will offer the best business returns.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 29 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PEOPLE Anglo American has numerous initiatives focused on Building a purpose-led culture supporting education and development, from schools We aspire to build and instil an engaging organisational through to tertiary institutions, as well as programmes culture that fosters safety, diversity, innovation and targeted at building skills and leadership capability.
To performance making us the employer of choice within strengthen our leadership pipeline, we are implementing the mining sector.
Our organisational culture is shaped by a framework for developing management and leadership leaders who demonstrate company values and lead their skills across the Group.
teams with a sense of purpose.
We have identified the need to develop a more structured An inclusive and diverse environment and integrated practice model for managing learning and Anglo American embraces inclusion and diversity in all its development across the Group.
The foundational element forms and complies with relevant legal obligations across of this new learning management system will be training host jurisdictions.
We seek a workforce that reflects our in our Code of Conduct, safety and operational risk geographical footprint and we provide similar opportunities management.
for broader development within the regions where we operate.
A diverse workforce is a source of competitive Given the changing nature of work, we recognise the advantage, bringing greater variety of thought to tackle need to be proactive in anticipating the implications of the complex, global challenges we face.
future technical innovation in terms of work content, capabilities required and employment numbers.
As a result, we are developing a more risk-based approach to long term workforce planning.
DOING THE RIGHT THING PUTTING OUR VALUES INTO ACTION Material issues Developing a capable and engaged workforce that behaves in a manner consistent with Anglo Americans values and Code of Conduct: Training more than 3,400 leaders to help employees understand the new Code of Conduct Providing a toolkit of innovative materials to create simple and creative messaging that can be understood by all of our employees, regardless of cultural, educational or literacy background.
Employees at During 2017, more than 3,400 leaders were trained to employees may encounter, such as what to do when they Anglo Americans facilitate AngloAmericans new Code of Conduct feel that safety or integrity may be compromised.
During headquarters in London were part of our engagement sessions with employees at all levels in the the discussions, employees were encouraged to refer to extensive employee organisation.
Helping employees to understand what it the new Code of Conduct as guidance in making the right engagement programme to cascade means to act ethically in Anglo American, and supporting choice or in knowing where to go to ask for more support.
and embed our new them in this process, is all the more critical in challenging Code of Conduct The toolkit supporting leaders in the cascade campaign market conditions where there are strong tensions successfully.
The Code included a range of innovative materials from animations provides employees between the pressure to deliver targets and choosing to with a single point of to interactive documents.
AngloAmerican was proud to do the right thing.
reference to guide them win the Best employee engagement programme in making the right The engagement programme for the Code of Conduct award in relation to its efforts in this regard at the 2017 choices, and drives the behaviours that will has encompassed all of our employees across a range of CorpComms Corporate Communications Awards.
support our high different cultural, educational and literacy backgrounds.
Various initiatives are under way to measure the success The approach has been to train team leaders to facilitate of the engagement programme.
In Anglo Americans discussions on ethical dilemmas and personal action 2017 Have your say employee engagement survey, commitments with their employees.
The dilemmas have 94% of respondents agreed that the new Code of been based on everyday challenging situations that Conduct was guiding the right behaviours.
30 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report We continually develop our workforce to ensure that we Reward structures which differentiate performance have this diversity among our future leaders.
The talent Rewarding successful business outcomes is central to mapping exercise we undertook in 2017 has provided a achieving our desired culture.
It is critical that we provide better insight into the future diversity make-up of the appropriate remuneration to attract, retain and motivate the organisation.
In certain areas of the business we focus right calibre of employee in the regions where we operate.
on particular aspects of diversity.
fide Beers, for example, We implement a performance management and is leading the way on improving gender diversity.
As a remuneration framework that is designed to reward our UNWomen partner, DeBeers has committed to achieving people on the basis of their performance, giving equal parity in the appointment of women and men into leadership emphasis to delivery and behaviour through short term roles, investing in female micro-entrepreneurs and science, incentives.
In 2017, we reviewed and revised our approach technology, engineering and maths STEM students in its to rewarding different levels within the organisation for diamond producing countries, and ensuring fide Beers safety performance.
Senior leaders within the organisation brands are a positive force for supporting gender equality are incentivised with longer term awards, which are provided through all its marketing campaigns.
In South Africa, ethnic upon meeting pre-determined objectives that are in line with and racial diversity is highlighted as an area of focus.
On the back of the progress made by fide Beers on gender In total, 19% of employees received formal performance diversity, Anglo American is developing a broader inclusion and development reviews.
This includes unconscious-bias training for senior managers and embedding appropriate Code of Conduct targets within our recruitment, talent and succession The Anglo American Code of Conduct explains the planning processes to ensure that management positions boundaries within which we must work every day and brings or critical role appointments are made from a diverse range together in one place our material ethical principles and of candidates.
It has at its core our shared values, which describe how we must behave consistently to continue to earn the By year end, women made up 19% of our overall workforce trust that gives us our licence to operate.
The proportion of permanent employees under 30 years of Our Business Integrity Policy and Performance Standards age was 13%, while those between the ages of 30 and support our anti-corruption commitment by making it clear 50 accounted for 68% of the workforce, and the remaining that we will neither give, nor accept, bribes, nor permit others 19% were over 50 years of age.
In South Africa, historically to do so in our name, either in our dealings with public disadvantaged South Africans made up 66% of officials or with our suppliers and customers.
The policy sets management positions.
out the standards of conduct required at every level of AngloAmerican, including our subsidiaries, joint ventures Anglo American has reported its gender pay gap as at and associates, in combating corrupt behaviour of all types.
the required snapshot date of 5 April 2017, in line with UK It also sets out the requirements of those with whom we do legal requirements.
business and those who work on our behalf.
For more information on our UK Gender Pay Gap See page 115 and the Anglo American website Our ethical business conduct team oversees implementation of the policy by working with senior Encouraging sound industrial relations managers in our business units and corporate functions, Approximately 72% of our current permanent workforce is and assisting them to put in place adequate procedures for represented by works councils, trade unions or other similar managing corruption risks including extensive face-to-face bodies and covered by collective bargaining agreements.
training of employees in high-risk roles.
We seek to improve relations with our employees and their representative bodies, and see trade unions as key partners Our internal audit team provides assurance on antiin promoting the broader welfare of our employees.
In 2017, corruption controls on an annual basis and all stakeholders Group-wide, there were no instances of industrial action are able to confidentially report breaches, or potential lasting longer than a week.
breaches, of the Business Integrity Policy through our independently managed Speak Up facility.
Supporting labour rights As expressed in our Human Rights Policy, and as signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, we are committed to the labour rights principles set out in the International Labour Organization core conventions, including the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, non-discrimination, and the eradication of child and forced labour.
Observance of these rights is required of all our operations and suppliers, irrespective of location.
At our operations, we have policies and processes in place to ensure that we do not employ any under-age or forced labour.
No incidents of employing under-age or forced labour were reported in 2017.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 31
