INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS NETHERLANDS KPMG ACCOUNTANTS N. V. UNITED KINGDOM KPMG LLP TO: THE GENERAL MEETING OF UNILEVER N. V. TO: THE MEMBERS OF UNILEVER PLC For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote KPMG Accountants N. V. in relation to the Netherlands responsibilities and reporting obligations to the General Meeting of Unilever N. V. and KPMG LLP in relation to UK responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Unilever PLC.
The Unilever Group the Group consists of Unilever PLC, Unilever N. V. and the entities they controlled during the financial year.
The reports of KPMG Accountants N. V. and KPMG LLP are presented in the left and right hand columns of this report respectively.
With the exception of the key audit matters and materiality in relation to the parent company audits of Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. where separate columns are not presented, the content of the reports of KPMG Accountants N. V. and KPMG LLP are identical.
Key audit matters and materiality disclosures in relation to the parent company audits of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC form part of the reports of KPMG Accountants N. V. and KPMG LLP respectively.
The financial statements the Financial Statements comprise: the consolidated financial statements of the Group the Consolidated Financial Statements : the parent company financial statements of Unilever N. V. the NV Company Accounts : and the parent company financial statements of Unilever PLC the PLC Company Accounts, each of which are defined below.
OUR OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1.
OUR OPINIONS ARE UNMODIFIED What we have audited We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2017, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In addition, KPMG Accountants N. V. has audited the NV Company Accounts which comprise the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2017, the company income statement, statement of comprehensive income and statement of changes in equity for 2017 and the notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information and KPMG LLP has audited the PLC Company Accounts which comprise the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2017, the company statement of changes in equity and the notes to the PLC Company Accounts, including the summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Our opinions In our opinion: In our opinion: the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements give the Consolidated Financial Statements and PLC Company Accounts give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group as at a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of Unilever PLCs 31 December 2017 and of its result and its cash flows for the year affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting then ended: Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared in the EU and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted and by the European Union IFRS as adopted by the EU : the accompanying NV Company Accounts give a true and fair view the PLC Company Accounts have been properly prepared in accordance of the financial position of Unilever N. V. as at 31 December 2017 with United Kingdom accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced and of its result for 2017 in accordance with United Kingdom Disclosure Framework: and accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure both the Consolidated Financial Statements and the PLC Company Framework and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
Accounts have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Basis for our opinion Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing.
Our responsibilities under those Additional opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB standards are further described in the Our responsibilities for the As explained in the accounting policies set out in the Consolidated Financial audit of financial statements section of our report.
Statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Group has also applied IFRS as issued by the We are independent of the Unilever Group in accordance with International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly prepared in of public-interest entities, the Audit firms supervision act Wet accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
toezicht  Wta, the Regulation regarding the Independence of Auditors in the case of Assurance Engagements Basis for opinion Verordening inzake fide onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on assurance-opdrachten ViO and other relevant independence Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are regulations in the Netherlands.
Furthermore we have complied with described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained the Regulation Code of Conduct and Professional Practice Auditors is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion Verordening gedrags-en beroepsregels accountants VGBA.
is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 14 May 2014.
The appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 4 financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
78 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW Materiality 350 million 2016: 350 million Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole 4.3% 2016: 4.7% of Group profit before taxation Coverage 78% 2016: 69% of revenue Key Audit Matters - Consolidated Financial Statements Recurring risks Revenue recognition Indirect tax contingent liabilities Direct tax provisions Event driven Business combinations - Carver Disposal of Spreads business presentation in the financial statements 2.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS: OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial Statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinions above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required, where relevant, by law for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The Risk Our Response and Results Revenue recognition Revenue is measured net of discounts, incentives Our procedures included: Refer to page 41 Report of the and rebates earned by customers on the Groups Accounting policies: Assessing the appropriateness of the Audit Committee, page 93 sales.
Within a number of the Groups markets, Groups revenue recognition accounting policies, including accounting policy and pages 94 the estimation of discounts, incentives and rebates those relating to discounts, incentives and rebates by to 95 financial disclosures.
recognised based on sales made during the year comparing with applicable accounting standards: is material and considered to be complex and Control testing: Testing the effectiveness of the Groups judgemental.
Therefore, there is a risk of revenue controls over the calculation of discounts, incentives and being misstated as a result of faulty estimations rebates and correct timing of revenue recognition: over discounts, incentives and rebates.
This is an Tests of details: Obtaining supporting documentation for area of significant judgement and with varying sales transactions recorded either side of year end as well complexity, depending on nature of arrangement.
as credit notes issued after the year end date to determine There is also a risk that revenue may be overstated whether revenue was recognised in the correct period.
due to fraud through manipulation of the Within a number of the Groups markets, comparing discounts, incentives and rebates recognised current year rebate accruals to the prior year and, where resulting from the pressure local management relevant, completing further inquiries and testing.
may feel to achieve performance targets.
Agreeing a sample of claims and rebate accruals to supporting documentation.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards Critically assessing manual journals posted to revenue to of the underlying products have been transferred identify unusual or irregular items: to the customer.
There is a risk of revenue being Our sector experience: Challenging the Groups overstated due to fraud resulting from the assumptions used in estimating rebate accruals using our pressure local management may feel to achieve experience of the industry in which it operates: performance targets at the reporting period end.
Expectation vs outcome: Developing an expectation of the current year revenue based on trend analysis information, taking into account historical weekly sales and returns information, and our understanding of each market.
We compared this expectation against actual revenue and, where relevant, completed further inquiries and testing: and Assessing disclosures: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of revenue.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the estimate of the accrual relating to discounts, incentives and rebates and the amount of revenue recognised to be acceptable and recorded in the correct period.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements 79 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS CONTINUED The Risk Our Response and Results Indirect tax contingent Contingent liability disclosures for indirect tax Our procedures included: liabilities require the directors to make judgements and Control testing: Testing the effectiveness of controls around Refer to page 41 Report of the estimates in relation to the issues and exposures.
the recording and re-assessment of indirect tax contingent Audit Committee, page 131 In Brazil, one of the Groups largest markets, liabilities: accounting policy and page 132 the complex nature of the local tax regulations Our tax expertise: Use of our own local indirect tax financial disclosures.
and jurisprudence make this a particular area specialists to assess the value of the contingent liabilities in of judgement.
light of the nature of the exposures, applicable regulations and related correspondence with the authorities: Enquiry of lawyers: Assessing relevant historical and recent judgments passed by the court authorities in considering any legal precedent or case law, as well as assessing legal opinions from third party lawyers and obtaining formal confirmations from the Groups external counsel, where appropriate: and Assessing disclosures: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures made in relation to indirect tax contingent liabilities.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the indirect tax contingent liability disclosures to be acceptable.
Our procedures included: Direct tax provisions The Group has extensive international Control testing: Testing the effectiveness of the Groups Refer to page 41 Report of the operations and in the normal course of business controls around the recording and re-assessment Audit Committee, page 105 the directors make judgements and estimates of transfer pricing provisions: accounting policy and pages in relation to transfer pricing tax issues and Our tax expertise: Use of our own tax specialists to perform 105 to 107 financial disclosures.
This is a key judgement due to the an assessment of the Groups related correspondence with Group operating in a number of tax jurisdictions, relevant tax authorities, to consider the valuation of transfer the complexities of transfer pricing and other pricing provisions: international tax legislation.
Challenging the assumptions using our own expectations based on our knowledge of the Group, considering relevant judgments passed by authorities, as well as assessing relevant opinions from third parties: and Assessing disclosures: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we found the level of tax provisioning to be acceptable.
Our procedures included Business combinations - On 1 November 2017, the Group acquired Control testing: Testing the effectiveness of controls over Carver approximately 98% of the share capital of Carver the review of assumptions used in the brand valuation: Refer to page 41 Report of the Korea for 2.28 billion, recognising identifiable Assessing principles: Assessing the principles of the Audit Committee, page 132 assets and liabilities acquired at fair value.
The relief from royalty valuation model: accounting policy and pages measurement of the assets acquired at fair value Benchmarking assumptions: Evaluating assumptions 132 to 135 financial disclosures.
In particular, judgement used, in particular those relating to: i the royalty rate used is required in determining the royalty rate and and ii the discount rate used: using our own valuation discount rate to be applied in the relief from specialists to compare these rates with externally derived royalty valuation of the acquired brand intangible data: and Assessing disclosures: Considering the adequacy of the asset.
Small changes in the royalty rate and Groups disclosures relating to the business combination.
discount rate assumptions can have a significant impact on the valuation of the brand.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the valuation of the acquired brand to be acceptable.
80 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The Risk Our Response and results Disposal of Spreads business On 15 December 2017 Unilever announced Our procedures included: presentation in the financial that it had received a binding offer to sell its Control testing: Testing the effectiveness of the Groups statements Spreads business.
controls over the presentation of the event: Refer to page 41 Report of the Tests of details: Inspecting the terms of the Share The Spreads business continues to be Audit Committee, page 136 Purchase Agreement to identify the assets and liabilities reported within continuing operations.
The accounting policy and page 136 relating to the Spreads business and assess the directors related assets held for sale and liabilities held financial disclosures.
conclusion to present them as held for sale: for sale amount to 3,184 million and 170 Agreeing the assets and liabilities presented as held for million respectively.
sale to relevant supporting evidence: The presentation of the event in the financial Testing application: Assessing the directors judgement statements is an area of judgment, particularly that the Spreads business does not represent a separate whether the Spreads business represents a major line of business, considering quantitative and separate major line of business or component qualitative factors such as the financial contribution of the of the Group, and therefore should be business to the Group and whether discrete financial presented as a discontinued operation.
information is regularly reviewed by the Unilever Leadership Executive ULE : and Assessing disclosures: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we consider the presentation of the Spreads business within continuing operations to be acceptable.
Investment in subsidiaries The carrying amount of the investments in Our procedures included: Unilever N. V. subsidiaries held at cost less impairment Control design: Testing the design of controls over the represent 87% and 68% of Unilever PLC and review of the investment impairment analysis: Refer to page 148 accounting Unilever N. V. total assets respectively.
Tests of details: Comparing the carrying amount of policy and page 150 financial investments with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance disclosures.
We do not consider the valuation of these sheet to identify whether their net assets, being an investments to be at a high risk of significant approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were misstatement, or to be subject to a significant level Unilever PLC in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether of judgement.
However, due to their materiality in those subsidiaries have historically been profit-making: Refer to page 153 accounting the context of the NV Company Accounts and PLC Our sector experience: For the investments where the policy and page 154 financial Company Accounts, this is considered to be an carrying amount exceeded the net asset value, comparing disclosures.
the carrying amount of the investment with the expected area which had the greatest effect on our overall value of the business based on a suitable multiple of the audit strategy and allocation of resources in subsidiaries earnings or discounted cash flow analysis: planning and completing our audits of Unilever Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging the assumptions PLC and Unilever N. V. used in the discounted cash flow analysis based on our knowledge of the Group and the markets in which the subsidiaries operate: and Assessing disclosures: Considering the adequacy of Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. disclosures in respect of the investment in subsidiaries.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
Our procedures included: Intangible assets The carrying amount of intangible assets Unilever N. V. represent 4% of Unilever N. V. total assets.
Control design: Testing the design of controls over the review of the intangible assets impairment analysis: Refer to page 148 accounting We do not consider the valuation of these Tests of details: Assessing the directors triggering event policy and page 149 financial intangible assets to be at a high risk of significant review relating to the intangible assets having regard to disclosures.
misstatement, or to be subject to a significant level the performance of the related brands and trademarks: of judgement.
However, due to their materiality in Our sector experience: Evaluating assumptions used, in the context of the NV Company Accounts this is particular those relating to forecast revenue growth and considered to be an area which had the greatest royalty rates: effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing assumptions to externally derived data in relation to key inputs such of resources in planning and completing our audit as royalty rates and discount rates: of Unilever N. V. Sensitivity analysis: Performing sensitivity analysis on the assumptions noted above: and Assessing disclosures: Considering the adequacy of Unilever N. V. disclosures in respect of the intangible assets.
Our results The results of our testing were satisfactory and we found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of intangible assets to be acceptable.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements 81 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS CONTINUED 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Materiality Based on our professional judgement, the materiality for the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole was set at 350 million 2016: 350 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation of which it represents 4.3% 2016: 4.7%.
Materiality for KPMG LLPs audit of the PLC Company Accounts as a whole was set at 120 million 2016: 120 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Unilever PLC Net Assets, of which it represents 2.2% 2016: 2.4%.
Materiality for KPMG Accountants N. V. s audit of the NV Company Accounts as a whole was set at 190 million 2016: 250 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Unilever N. V. Net Assets, of which it represents 1.9% 2016: 2.6%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 17 million 2016: 25 million in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scope of our audit The Group operates through a significant number of legal entities and these form reporting components that are primarily country based.
To provide sufficient coverage over the Groups key audit matters, we performed audits of 14 components 2016: 13, which are included within Audit for group reporting purposes below, as well as audits of account balances including revenue and the related accounts receivables balances at a further 19 2016: 10 components which are included within Audit of account balances below.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes but were included in the scope of our group reporting work in order to provide additional coverage.
The Group operates 7 main centralised operating centres in India, Brazil, Thailand, Poland, Philippines, Mexico and China that perform accounting and reporting activities alongside related controls.
Together, these operating centres process a substantial portion of the Groups transactions.
The outputs from the centralised operating centres are included in the financial information of the reporting components they service and therefore they are not separate reporting components.
Each of the operating centres is subject to specified audit procedures.
Further audit procedures are performed at each reporting component to cover matters not covered at the centralized operating centres and together this results in audits for group reporting purposes on those reporting components.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the following percentages of the Group's results: Group profit Number of Group before Group 2017 components revenue taxation total assets Audits for group reporting purposes 14 52% 61% 77% Audits of account balances 19 26% 16% 5% Total 33 78% 77% 82% 2016 Audits for group reporting purposes 13 52% 44% 75% Audits of account balances 10 17% 33% 5% Total 23 69% 77% 80% The remaining 22% 2016: 31% of Group revenue, 23% 2016: 23% of Group profit before taxation and 18% 2016: 20% of Group total assets is represented by a significant number of reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 3% 2016: 3% of any of Group revenue, Group profit before taxation or Group assets.
A substantial portion of these components utilise the 7 operating centres and are therefore subject to audit procedures performed at these operating centres.
For these components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the key audit matters detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 1 million to 275 million 2016: 4 million to 275 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on components was performed by component auditors.
The group audit team visited locations in Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Netherlands, Singapore, Switzerland, South Africa and USA 2016: Argentina, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Korea, Singapore, Switzerland, Thailand and Vietnam.
Telephone and or online meetings were also held with these component auditors and the majority of the others that were not physically visited.
The findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail with component auditors and any further work required by the group audit team was then performed by the component auditors.
The work on 31 of the 33 components 2016: 21 of the 23 components was performed by component auditors and the audit of the parent companies, were performed by the Group audit team.
82 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4.
OTHER REPORTING Report on the other information included in the Unilever We have nothing to report on going concern Annual Report and Accounts 2017 We are required to report to you if: In addition to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the NV we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Company Accounts and our auditors report thereon, the Unilever directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use Annual Report and Accounts 2017 contains other information that of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties consists of: that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the report of the Directors consisting of the Strategic Report the financial statements: or and the Governance Report: the related statement under the UK Listing Rules set out on page 77 is other information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Netherlands Civil Code: We have nothing to report in these respects.
PLC Company Accounts: Shareholder information: We have nothing to report on the other information in the Index: and Annual Report Additional information for US Listing Purposes.
The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 together with the Financial Based on the below procedures performed, we conclude that the Statements.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other other information: information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except is consistent with the Financial Statements and does not contain as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
material misstatements: and Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the Financial Statements We have read the other information.
Based on our understanding or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified obtained through our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements material misstatements in the other information.
and the NV Company Accounts or otherwise, we have considered Strategic report and directors report whether the other information contains material misstatements.
Based solely on our work on the other information: By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code and the Dutch the directors report: Auditing Standard 720.
The scope of the procedures performed in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial is substantially less than the scope of those performed in our year is consistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the NV PLC Company Accounts: and Company Accounts.
in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Management is responsible for the preparation of other information, Directors remuneration report including the report of the Directors in accordance with Part 9 of In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code and the other Information has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing Engagement material to add or draw attention to in relation to: We were engaged as auditor of Unilever N. V. for the 2017 year by the General Meeting on 26 April 2017 and have operated as statutory the directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on page 27 that auditor since the financial year 2014. they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future No prohibited non-audit services performance, solvency and liquidity: We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in the Principal Risk Factors disclosures describing these risks and Article 5 1 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and statutory audit of public-interest entities.
the directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the UK Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the UK Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements 83 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORTS CONTINUED We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the PLC Company Accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
RESPONSIBILITIES Directors and Audit Committees responsibilities Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for: As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 77, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements the preparation and fair presentation of the Consolidated and the PLC Company Accounts including being satisfied that they give a true Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the and fair view.
They are also responsible for: such internal control as they EU and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, and for the determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Consolidated Financial preparation of the Report of the Directors in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code: Statements and PLC Company Accounts, that are free from material the preparation and fair presentation of the NV Company misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and PLC Accounts in accordance with United Kingdom accounting Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code: and accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the PLC such internal control as management determines is necessary to Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
enable the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and NV Company Accounts that are free from material Auditors responsibilities misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible whether due to fraud, other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue for assessing the Groups and Unilever N. V. s ability to continue as a our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of going concern.
Based on the financial reporting frameworks assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance mentioned, the Directors should prepare the Consolidated Financial with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Statements and NV Company Accounts using the going concern Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be Group and or Unilever N. V. or to cease operations, or have no expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors should disclose in the the financial statements.
Consolidated Financial Statements and NV Company Accounts events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at Groups and or Unilever N. V. s ability to continue as a going concern.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups Irregularities ability to detect financial reporting process.
Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
In Our responsibilities for the audit of financial statements planning and performing our audit, we considered the impact of laws and Our objective is to plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient and regulations in the specific areas of taxation legislation reflecting the Groups appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.
Our audit has been presence in a number of tax jurisdictions and competition legislation performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which reflecting the Groups involvement in a number of ongoing investigations by means we may not have detected all material errors and fraud.
We identified these areas from our sector Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered experience and through discussion with the directors and other management material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be as required by auditing standards.
In addition we had regard to laws and expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the regulations in other areas including financial reporting and company basis of these financial statements.
The materiality affects the legislation.
nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations that of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion.
directly affect the financial statements, being taxation and financial reporting A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the including related company legislation, as part of our procedures on the financial statements is located at the website of fide Konimklijke related financial statement items.
For the remaining laws and regulations, we Nederlandse Beroepsorganisatie then Accountants NBA, Royal inspected legal correspondence and made enquiries of directors and other Netherlands Institute of Chartered Accountants at: management as required by auditing standards.
This description forms part of our We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and independent auditors report.
remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of irregularities in these areas, 84 Financial Statements Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 or other areas directly identified by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement by the company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report, and the further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with the terms agreed with the company, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SIGNING Eric van Leeuwen Paul Korolkiewicz External auditor Senior Statutory Auditor KPMG Accountants N. V. for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Amsterdam Chartered Accountants 23 February 2018 London 23 February 2018 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements 85
