Independent auditors report to the members of ConvaTec Group Plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements of ConvaTec Group plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and Company Balance Sheet: the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: and the related Notes 1 to 28 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes 1 to 11 of the Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our Report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Revenue Recognition focusing on whether sales are valid, with higher risk in the recording of revenue for sales shipments that either did not occur, or did not occur at the level recorded by management, or for which the risks and rewards have not passed to the customer.
Taxation focusing on the tax impact of provisions for uncertain tax positions and recognition of deferred tax assets and the related impact on taxation charge and balance sheet amounts.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group Financial Statements was $12.3 million.
Materiality was determined on the basis of forecasted profit before tax PBT, normalised for non-recurring costs including margin improvement programme MIP costs, initial public offering IPO related costs and pre-IPO share based payment expenses.
Our materiality represents 5.6% of the normalised pre-tax profit measure.
In the prior year audit our materiality of $16.9 million was determined by utilising a blended rate of financial metrics including revenue, adjusted EBITDA and current assets in the absence of a profit before tax benchmark.
Scoping We performed full scope audit procedures on eleven legal entities covering eight countries.
In addition, we have performed specified audit procedures in twelve legal entities across nine countries.
Together, these accounted for 85% of revenue, 82% of profit before tax and 83% of net assets.
Significant Last year our Report included valuation of goodwill as a key audit matter in respect of key judgements applied by management changes in our in determining recoverable amounts which included: short and long-term growth projections: identification of cash generating approach units CGUs : and discount rates applied.
Whilst still an area of audit focus, this matter is not included in our Report this year for the following reasons.
There is sufficient headroom in managements impairment calculations to reduce the sensitivity of key assumptions without triggering a reasonably possible impairment, and the market capitalisation of the Group is significantly in excess of the recoverable amount of its cash generating units.
ConvaTec Group Plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the Directors statement in Note 3 to the Financial Statements about whether they considered nothing material to report, add it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any or draw attention to in respect material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve of these matters.
months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the nothing material to report, add knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the or draw attention to in respect Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required of these matters.
to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 30 to 36 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 37 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
ConvaTec Group Plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of ConvaTec Group Plc continued Revenue recognition Key audit matter ISAs UK require that, as part of our overall response to the risk of fraud, when identifying and assessing the risks of material description misstatement due to fraud, we evaluate which types of revenue or revenue transactions might give rise to potential fraud risks.
We have specifically focused this risk to whether sales are valid with higher risk in the area of recording revenue for sales shipments that either did not occur, or did not occur at the level recorded by management, or for which the risks and rewards have not passed to the customer.
Pressures to meet stakeholder expectations in the Groups first full year of trading following IPO as well as the trading update provided to the market on 16 October 2017 could provide incentives to record revenues where risk and reward have not passed and therefore we consider this is be a key audit matter.
The associated disclosure by franchise and geographical region is included within Note 5.
The Audit Committee has included their assessment of this risk on page 77 and it is included within the critical accounting policies in Note 4.
For specific detail on the Groups accounting policy, please see Note 3.
How the scope In response to the pressure identified in the key audit matter description above, we performed a risk assessment across the of our audit Group to identify specific areas of risk, focusing our testing accordingly.
responded to the key audit matter Our audit response consisted of several procedures including those summarised below.
The specific combination of procedures performed varied by location.
We performed walkthroughs of the revenue cycle at full scope components to gain an understanding of when the revenue should be recognised, to map out the relevant controls and the end to end processes in place.
We have assessed the design and implementation of these controls.
We made enquiries of local finance management, including finance directors, on movements in the revenue balance and have considered their responses against the detailed testing performed to determine whether the information corroborates the movements identified.
We performed detailed transaction testing on a sample basis, agreeing sales through to invoice, final sales contracts or purchase orders.
We compared invoice prices to Company price lists on a sample basis to validate levels of discounting, agreeing the net revenue amount recorded by management to underlying accounting records and remittance.
We performed analytical reviews and utilised our analytics tools in certain components to identify any unusual sales trends and obtained an explanation for any such movements.
We obtained confirmations from customers in certain locations to support the assertion that revenue has been appropriately recognised.
We also reviewed a sample of distributor contracts to assess the terms of sale and to support recalculation of rebates and chargebacks associated with the revenue.
We held interviews with a selection of sales personnel to determine the existence of any side agreements or unusual arrangements which may impact when revenue can be recognised.
We held quarterly review calls with franchise and geographic market leaders to identify changes in customer demand and new product introductions that might impact sales patterns.
In addition, we utilised our audit work on the transition to IFRS 15, which will be applied in 2018.
We performed an assessment of the revenue recognition for 54 customer contracts which did not identify inappropriate accounting treatment under IAS 18.
Our procedures performed allowed us to gain a thorough understanding of the revenue cycle with a variety of procedures performed to minimise the risk associated to potential fraud.
Key observations We were satisfied that the key assumptions used in the application of revenue recognition have been applied appropriately.
We noted no instances above our reporting threshold to the Audit Committee of inappropriate revenue recognition arising from our testing.
ConvaTec Group Plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Taxation Key audit matter The Group operates internationally with trading across multiple tax jurisdictions.
Transfer pricing and loan agreements can be description complex and subject to challenge by tax authorities.
As a result the Group is potentially exposed to transfer pricing risks and challenges on interest deductions, and has to make judgements about uncertain tax positions UTPs.
In addition to UTPs there is management judgment in the recognition of deferred tax assets DTAs, as the recognition of these assets will be based on managements assessment of their recoverability.
As at 31 December 2017 the Group held a provision for UTPs of $15.4 million 2016: $19.1 million, principally in respect of historical transfer pricing and disallowable interest deduction items.
Total recognised DTAs at 31 December 2017 were $9.6 million 2016: $22.0 million.
At 31 December 2017 management assessed that unrecognised temporary differences of $2,217 million 2016: $1,927 million were irrecoverable and therefore no DTA was recognised for these tax attributes.
The accuracy of the tax provision is a key audit matter due to the level of complexity in the underlying tax judgements.
Recognition of DTAs, in particular those regarding the material unrecognised assets, involved high levels of judgement.
Whilst the US Tax Reform in 2017 does not form part of our key audit matter, it does indirectly impact the recognition and valuation of DTAs recognised in the US, which has been considered as part of our work on DTAs and further contributes to taxation being a key audit matter.
The associated disclosure is included within Note 10.
The Audit Committee has included their assessment of this risk on page 77 and it is included within the key sources of estimation uncertainty in Note 4.
How the scope In conjunction with our internal tax audit specialists, we have challenged the completeness of UTPs by considering changes to of our audit the business and tax legislation in key jurisdictions, discussion with key management, and review of correspondence with responded to the authorities where relevant.
key audit matter We have assessed and challenged the calculation for the tax provision and the procedures in place to analyse movements including the rationale for any release, increase or continued provision in the year.
We have reviewed and challenged managements judgements regarding the recoverability of temporary differences.
We have obtained forecasts showing the expected utilisation of key unrecognised temporary differences in order to further assess their recoverability.
We have challenged management on the impact of the Tax Reform on the Group.
We have audited the mandatory repatriation tax calculation prepared by management.
We have confirmed the rate reduction has been correctly applied with respect to the Groups closing deferred tax balances, including assessing the impact on recognition of DTAs.
Key observations We did not identify any material tax errors or changes to the provisions or assets recognised.
We note that the appropriate recognition criteria have been met and we therefore concur with the treatment adopted by management both for DTAs unrecognised, and for those recognised.
ConvaTec Group Plc 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of ConvaTec Group Plc continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements We have determined materiality for the Group to be $12.3 million 2016: $16.9 million which equates to 5.6% of our chosen benchmark, this being normalised profit before tax.
Normalised profit before tax is calculated as profit before tax, adding back specific non-recurring items which included pre-IPO share based compensation expense, IPO related costs, and costs associated with the margin improvement programme MIP.
In 2016 there was no meaningful PBT measure which could be used as a benchmark for materiality due to the previous debt structure.
Our materiality was determined using a blended rate of financial metrics including: current assets: Adjusted EBITDA: and revenue.
We selected these three benchmarks which we believed covered key metrics of the Group and were relevant to the users of the Financial Statements.
Parent Company Financial Statements We have determined materiality for the Company to be $9.2 million 2016: $16.8 million.
Materiality was determined as part of our scoping of components, assessing the risk within the Company compared to others within the Group.
A set percentage of Group materiality was applied to the Company based upon the risk assessment.
Group materiality $12.3m Materiality applied by the component auditors ranged from $8.6 million to $9.2 million, depending on the scale of the components operations and our assessment of risks specific to each location.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $0.6 million 2016: $0.9 million for the Group and the Parent Company, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
ConvaTec Group Plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 An overview of the scope of our audit Based on this assessment, we focused our work on eleven Our Group audit was scoped on an entity level basis, assessing 2016: twelve legal entities covering eight 2016: nine components against the risk of material misstatement at the countries, 80% 2016: 75% of revenue, 74% 2016: not Group level.
We have also considered the quantum of Financial applicable as loss making of profit before tax and 73% 2016: Statement balances and individual financial transactions of a 71% of net assets.
All eleven 2016: 12 entities were subject to significant nature.
In performing our assessment, we have a full scope audit.
The eleven 2016: twelve legal entities are considered the geographical spread of the Group and any risks located in: the United States of America: the United Kingdom: presented within each region.
Switzerland: Denmark: Germany: Italy: France: and Japan, representing the principal operating units of the Group.
In addition, we have performed specified audit procedures in twelve 2016: eleven legal entities covering nine 2016: eight.
countries, 5% 2016: 10% of revenue, 8% 2016: not applicable.
as loss making of PBT, and 10% 2016: 12% of net assets.
The twelve 2016: eleven entities are located in: the United States of America: the United Kingdom: Denmark: the Netherlands: Portugal: Spain: Canada: the Dominican Republic: Australia: and Slovakia.
Our only change in scoping year on year was the downgrade of the Dominican Republic entity from full scope audit to specified audit procedures.
This is due to the fact that the entity is purely a manufacturing entity with no third party revenue, and where 1.
Full audit scope 80% only certain key balances of audit interest.
Specified audit procedures 5% 3. Review at Group level 15% At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical review procedures on those entities outside of those noted above.
Any movements in account Profit before tax % balances which did not corroborate our initial risk assessment.
This testing confirmed our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of.
the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to a full scope audit or specified.
As part of our audit, a senior member of the Group audit team visited each of the most significant components of the Group, including the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Denmark and Switzerland.
These locations were also visited during our prior year audit.
They encompass 64% 2016: 63% of the Groups revenue.
As part of these visits meetings were 1.
Full audit scope 74% held with both component management and the component 2.
Specified audit procedures 8% audit team.
In addition to our visits, we send detailed instructions 3. Review at Group level 18% to our component audit teams, include them in our team briefings, and discuss their risk assessment papers.
Specified audit procedures 10% 3. Review at Group level 17% ConvaTec Group Plc 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members of ConvaTec Group Plc continued Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included We have nothing to report in in the Annual Report including the Overview, Strategic Report and Governance sections but does not include the respect of these matters.
Financial Statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our Report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors Report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
Use of our Report This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
ConvaTec Group Plc 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors Remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures these matters.
of Directors Remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure The Company was newly incorporated in 2016 and had not yet had an Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 12 December 2016 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
Our appointment was confirmed by the Company at its Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2017.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is two years, covering the periods ending 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the Audit Report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Gregory Culshaw, ACA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 14 February 2018 ConvaTec Group Plc 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
