Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Provident Financial plc Opinion on financial statements of ProvidentFinancial plc Basis for opinion In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the financial statements give a true and fair view of the under those standards are further described in the auditors state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section as at 31December2017 and of the groups loss for the of our report.
year then ended: We are independent of the group and the parent company in the group financial statements have been properly prepared accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our in accordance with International Financial Reporting audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have the parent company financial statements have been fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited the European Union and as applied in accordance with the by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and parent company.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Material uncertainty relating to going concern We have audited the financial statements of Provident Financial We draw attention to the statement of accounting policies in the plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group financial statements, which disclose the intention to raise additional which comprise: capital of 300 million gross proceeds 331 million net of expenses of 31 million by way of rights issue.
The consolidated income statement: Without the benefit of the net proceeds from the rights issue, the The consolidated statement of comprehensive income: group is unable to meet certain regulatory capital requirements, The consolidated and parent company balance sheets: namely the minimum level of regulatory capital which the PRA expects the group to hold and covenant waivers and relaxations The consolidated and parent company statements of changes which have been obtained would cease to be effective.
in equity: The rights issue is fully underwritten, subject to both customary The consolidated and parent company cash flow statements: and other conditions.
The statement of accounting policies: and In response to this, we: The related notes 1 to 33.
Assessed managements own going concern assessment including The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their reasonableness of the Groups financial forecasts and reasonable preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European downside sensitivities: Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as Assessed the historical accuracy of forecasts prepared applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. by management: Obtained and reviewed the terms of agreements for new and amended banking facilities: Engaged a Deloitte regulatory specialist to perform a review of the capital plan: Considered the Directors Working Capital Statement in the Offering Circular: Held a bilateral meeting with the PRA to discuss the capital position of the group: Reviewed managements covenant calculations and verified that these are being calculated in line with the loan agreement definitions: and Considered the adequacy of the extent of disclosure around the uncertainty affecting the going concern assumption.
As stated in the statement of accounting policies, these events or conditions, along with the other matters as set forth in the statement of accounting policies in the financial statements, indicate that a material uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
187 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Provident Financial plc continued Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Material uncertainty related to going concern see material uncertainty relating to going concern section Provision for impairment losses against loans and receivables in Consumer Credit Division, Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn Conduct provisions Revenue recognition in Consumer Credit Division and Vanquis Bank Defined benefit pension scheme valuation Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 8.3 million which was determined on the basis of 3.5% of the average profit before tax and exceptional items for the past three years.
Scoping As in the prior year, our group audit scope focused on all of the principal trading subsidiaries within the groups three reportable segments which account for 100% of the groups profit before tax.
Significant Our risk assessment has identified two new key audit matters in the current year being the provision for impairment changesin losses against loans and receivables at Moneybarn and conduct provisions.
our approach We have identified provisions for impairment losses at Moneybarn as a new key audit matter owing to the increased significance of Moneybarn in the context of the Group.
We have identified conduct provisions as a key audit matter as increased regulatory scrutiny and the regulatory investigations into Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn give rise to the need for significant management judgement and estimation in determining appropriate provisions and disclosures in accordance with IAS 37.
Our materiality is based upon 3.5% of the average profit before tax and exceptional items for the past three years FY16: 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
We have chosen to use an average measure in determining materiality as, despite the loss reported in FY17, profit based measures remain the most relevant to the users of the financial statements.
Our risk assessment has ensured our work is sufficiently focussed on our significant risks.
The percentage applied to the benchmark has been reduced from 5% to 3.5% to take account of the fact that an average measure results in a higher benchmark being used.
188 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in the statement of accounting policies in As noted above, the directors the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the have identified matters going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any indicating that a material material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a uncertainty relating to going period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention Aside from the matters to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the disclosed in that section, we statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention in respect of these requirements.
Aside from the impact of Principal risks Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the matters disclosed in the and viability the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the groups material uncertainty relating statement and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state to going concern section and whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: on page 45, we confirm that we have nothing material to add the disclosures on pages 47-50 that describe the principal risks and explain how or draw attention to in respect they are being managed or mitigated: of these requirements.
the directors confirmation on page 101 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 46 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Together with the matter described in the material uncertainty relating to going concern section, we have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
We have identified two new key audit matters in the current year being the provision for impairment losses against loans and receivables at Moneybarn as well as conduct provisions in respect of the FCA investigations into Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn divisions.
189 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Provident Financial plc continued Provision for impairment losses against loans and receivables Consumer Credit Division, Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn Key audit matter The provision for impairment losses is calculated by modelling portfolios of receivables within the group.
The assessment description of the groups calculation of provisions is complex and requires management to make significant judgements regarding the level and timing of expected future cash flows from loans that have experienced a loss event.
There is further judgement involved in assessing whether the model and any adjustments capture all relevant factors that have a significant influence on impairment.
Due to the ability of management to introduce inappropriate bias to judgements made in the estimation process, we have determined that there was a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of any provision for loan impairment.
Further detail in respect of these assumptions is set out on page 136 and in note 14 of the financial statements and also onpage 89 within the governance section.
Within the Consumer Credit Division the implementation of Project Accelerate has resulted in a deterioration in collections performance during the second half of the year which has led to an increased risk that historic cash flows do not reflect recent collections performance.
As a result, the assumptions within the impairment models require re-evaluation as to whether they continue to be appropriate under the new operating model.
Within Vanquis Bank modelling techniques are applied by management to estimate the provision for impairment of credit card receivables.
The provision calculation is complex and consists of a number of elements and steps.
Historical payment patterns are generated using data extracted from the companys DataWarehouse.
The extracted data go through a series of operations, some of which are automated using programming code and some of which are manual.
The extent of manual operations is significant leading to an increased risk of material misstatement.
Within Moneybarn historic cash flows are extracted from the system and used to derive provisioning rates and the continuing validity of the impairment assumptions is assessed periodically by management.
Controls procedures How the scope of our audit Within the Consumer Credit Division and Vanquis Bank we assessed the design and tested the implementation and responded to operating effectiveness of key controls relating to identification, valuation and recording of impairment provisions.
thekey audit Within the Consumer Credit Division this included using our IT specialists to test the data flow of loans made and matter collections received from source systems to the spreadsheet-based models to test their completeness and accuracy.
Within Moneybarn we evaluated the design and implementation of key controls relating to the recording of impairment provisions.
Substantive procedures Within the Consumer Credit Division we utilised our data specialists to reperform the extract of the entire population from the data warehouse and reconciled this to the spreadsheet-based models.
We assessed whether the methodology applied by management is in line with IAS 39, including assessing the trigger points and the estimate and timing of future cash flows.
We challenged the methodology for forecasting collections under the new operating model by assessing both the historical forecasting accuracy and the appropriateness of forecasting assumptions made going forward.
Within Vanquis Bank we evaluated whether the methodology applied by management is compliant with the requirements of IAS 39.
This included the appropriateness of portfolio segmentation into homogeneous cohorts and of impairment triggers identified by management.
We further considered whether there are any indications of bias in the methodology applied or in the estimate of the level and timing of expected future cash flows.
We tested the data used in the models including historical data used to generate expected future cash flows and the current portfolio data.
We utilised our IT specialists to check that the code used to perform the automated data operations is in accordance with the approved methodology.
We independently reperformed manual data operations to test the mathematical integrity of the calculations.
Within Moneybarn we engaged our IT specialists to re-perform the SAS code which extracts cash flows that are used in deriving the provisioning rates and evaluated the mechanical accuracy of the spreadsheet based provisioning rate calculations.
We assessed whether the methodology applied by management is in line with IAS 39, including evaluating the estimation and timing of cash flows.
In addition, we assessed the appropriateness of any adjustments made to the provisioning model.
Key observations The provision models across the group were found to be working as intended and the methodology used is compliant with requirements of IAS 39.
Our work on the completeness and accuracy of data identified no significant issues.
We found the assumptions relating to the identification of impaired accounts within the groups incurred loss models to be appropriate.
We found that the collections expectations used in the Consumer Credit Division are materially consistent with recent and budgeted collections.
Within Vanquis Bank a deficiency was identified in model governance controls, including controls over access and change management and independent validation.
We did not place reliance on these controls and addressed the corresponding audit risks substantively.
We found that the provisioning rate calculations within Moneybarn were performing in line with our expectation and adjustments made to the model output were supportable.
190 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Conduct provisions Key audit matter On 27 February 2018 the company reached a settlement with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA in respect of their description investigation into the Repayment Option Plan ROP product sold by the company.
Significant management judgement was required to assess the level of provision which should be recognised and the nature of any contingent liability disclosure made.
There is also an ongoing FCA investigation into Moneybarn in relation to the processes applied to customer affordability assessments for vehicle finance and the treatment of customers in financial difficulties.
Significant management judgement is required to determine a best estimate of the groups liability for customer redress costs and the timing of any settlement.
As disclosed in note 24, management has recognised a provision of 104.6 million in relation to these matters.
Further detail in respect of the investigation is set out in note 24, in note 32 and in the statement of accounting policies.
How the scope In order to understand the basis of the ROP settlement and the Moneybarn investigation we obtained and reviewed the correspondence between the companies and the FCA in relation to ROP and the Moneybarn investigation and enquired of our audit of the companys legal advisors.
We also considered the information that has become available up to the date of our responded to the audit report.
keyaudit matter We also held a bilateral meeting with the FCA to enhance our understanding of the investigation status and findings.
We have tested the completeness and accuracy of the source data used to identify affected customers and engaged data specialists to review the SQL scripts used to extract determine the of customers that will be due redress.
For Vanquis Bank we have reviewed and tested the accuracy of the calculations supporting the valuation of the provision recognised by management and of the contingent liability.
We have evaluated whether the underlying assumptions are reasonable and supportable.
We have tested the data used in the calculations.
For Moneybarn we have reviewed and tested the accuracy of the calculations supporting the valuation of the Moneybarn provision recognised by management.
We also evaluated whether the provision disclosures contained within note 24 were appropriate and in accordance with the requirements of IAS 37.
No material issues were identified in the data used in the calculations.
We did not identify any material issues in the Key observations methodology used to calculate the redress or in the calculations themselves.
The disclosures are in line with the requirements of IAS 37.
191 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Provident Financial plc continued Revenue recognition Consumer Credit Division and Vanquis Bank Key audit In the Consumer Credit Division, management maintains product level Effective Interest Rate EIR models for the purpose of determining revenue recognition in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39.
The EIR method spreads matter description directly attributable revenues and costs over the behavioural life of the loan.
These models are reliant on the quality of the underlying data flowing into the models.
For Vanquis Bank we concluded that manual adjustments to revenue pose a significant risk of material misstatement.
These manual adjustments are necessary to ensure revenue is recognised in compliance with IAS 39 which requires that interest revenue should be accrued using the original EIR applied to the net carrying value of the asset.
Vanquis Banks systems accrue revenue on a gross contractually billed basis, and therefore an adjustment is necessary.
The Groups revenue is 1,196.3 million FY16: 1,183.2 million and further detail in respect of the accounting policies and revenue recognised is set out in the accounting policies on page 134 and 135 and note 1 and 2 of the financial statements.
How the scope Controls procedures of our audit We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls within the Consumer Credit Division relating to the recording responded to the of revenue which focused on the flow of data from source systems into spreadsheet based EIR models.
keyaudit matter Within Vanquis Bank we evaluated the design and implementation of the controls over the manual adjustments to revenue.
Substantive procedures Within the Consumer Credit Division we tested the spreadsheet based models to assess whether they were working asintended and in compliance with the requirements of IAS 39.
We challenged the assumptions used in the recognition of revenue by reference to behavioural history and sensitivity tomacroeconomic factors.
Within Vanquis Bank we critically assessed the methodology used to calculate the manual adjustments to revenue against the requirements of IAS 39.
We independently reperformed certain elements of the calculation.
Key observations Within Vanquis Bank we identified a deficiency in the control over the calculation of the manual adjustments to revenue, which resulted in the methodology for one of the recognised adjustments being inappropriately designed.
We identified a reclassification misstatement between revenue and impairment, but overall concluded that the treatment was appropriate.
Within the Consumer Credit Division we found the models to be working as intended and the underlying assumptions to be reasonable.
From the evidence we obtained, the underlying data used were found to be complete and accurate.
Defined benefit pension scheme valuation Key audit Under IAS 19, the value of the defined benefit pension scheme is recognised on the Groups balance sheet, reflecting matter description an actuarial valuation of the assets and liabilities of the scheme at the balance sheet date.
The key risk of material misstatement is the valuation of the pension obligation of 733.2 million 2016: 757.7 million.
This valuation involves judgements in relation to inflation rates, discount rates and mortality rates.
The most critical element identified was the discount rate assumption as set out in the sensitivity analysis in note 19.
Further detail in respect of these assumptions is set out in the accounting policies on page 137 and note 19 of the financial statements and also on page 89 in the governance section.
How the scope We used our actuarial specialists to assist us in evaluating the appropriateness of the principal actuarial assumptions used of our audit in the calculation of the retirement benefit obligation.
This involved benchmarking managements assumptions against those used by a range of organisations as at 31 December 2017 and considering the consistency of those judgements responded to the compared to prior year.
keyaudit matter All assumptions, including the discount rate and the RPI inflation rate, adopted by management are within what we deem Key observations to be an acceptable range.
192 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 8.3 million 2016: 16.3 million 4.6 million 2016: 9.7 million Basis for 3.5% of profit before tax and exceptional items averaged 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items determining over the previous three years 2016: 5% of profit before 2016: 5% of profit before tax materiality tax and exceptional items.
Rationale for the Profit based measures are the financial measures We considered the most relevant basis for materiality benchmark applied most relevant to users of the financial statements.
to be the profits earned from continuing business We considered the most relevant basis for materiality operations and have therefore excluded the exceptional to be the profits earned from continuing business items.
Exceptional items in 2017 related to the waiver operations and have therefore excluded the exceptional of certain intercompany balances.
items as identified by management in note 1 to the financial statements.
This includes the exceptional costs in relation to Project Accelerate being redundancy, retention and training, consultancy costs and the conduct provisions for Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn.
The percentage applied to the benchmark has been reduced from 5% to 3.5% to reflect the need to take account of the fact that an average measure is being used as the benchmark.
Materiality 10.50 profit before tax and exceptional items averaged over three years 237.9m 8.75 Group materiality 8.3m 7.00 5.25 Component materiality range 0.4m to 7.5m 3.50 1.75 Audit Committee reporting 0.00 threshold 0.2m Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report all audit differences in excess of 0.2 million 2016: 0.3 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
193 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Provident Financial plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, and as in the prior year, our group audit scope focused on all of the principal trading subsidiaries within the groups three reportable segments which account for 100% of the groups profit before tax.
Moneybarn and the Consumer Credit Division are audited by separate engagement teams led by the group audit partner: Vanquis Bank is audited by a separate component team, under the supervision of the group team who have maintained regular communication throughout the audit.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to report in included in the annual report including the Strategic Report, the Governance section and the Directors respect of these matters.
remuneration report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
194 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the CompaniesAct 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of theaudit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Directors of Provident Financial plc on 29 June 2012 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2012 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 6 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2012 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Matthew Perkins, Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Birmingham, United Kingdom 27 February 2018 195 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Shareholder Information 196
