FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Standard Chartered PLC Basis for opinion 1.
Our opinion is unmodi ed We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have audited the financial statements of Standard Chartered PLC on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the Company, and its subsidiaries together the Group, for the are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the consolidated obtained is a suf cient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit balance sheet, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Group and Company cash ow statement, We were appointed as auditor by the Group before 1973.
The period the Company balance sheet, the Company statement of changes of total uninterrupted engagement is for more than the 45 financial in equity and the related notes, including the accounting policies in years ended 31 December 2017. note 1.
We have ful lled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical In our opinion: requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December that standard were provided.
2017 and of the Groups pro t for the year then ended: Overview 2017 2016 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Materiality: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Group financial statements $100m $150m adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : 1 Benchmark 4.1% of 4.3% of the parent Company financial statements have been properly group four-year prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as pro t normalised applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act before tax average 2006: and group pro t before tax the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards Coverage: the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of group pro t before tax 88% 92% Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 Legal and regulatory matters Impairment on loans and advances Goodwill impairment Valuation of financial instruments held at fair value Information technology Recoverability of Parent Companys investment 2 in subsidiaries 1 Further determination of benchmark is included on page 197 2 Separately set out in the auditors report for the first time in 2017 Standard Chartered 192 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signi cance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most signi cant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identi ed by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter The risk Our response Legal and regulatory matters Dispute Outcome Our procedures included: There are a number of pending and ongoing legal Refer to page 64 Audit Committee Enquiry of lawyers: Meetings with the Groups Report, page 258 note 24 Provisions disputes and regulatory investigations involving the external counsel in the US and UK and the PRA for liabilities and charges and page 259 Group.
In certain litigation and regulatory matters who are in regular contact with US and other note 26 Legal and regulatory matters signi cant judgement is required by management including accounting policies regulatory bodies to understand the nature to determine whether a present obligation exists and status of legal disputes and regulatory and whether a provision should be recognised.
investigations to determine whether or not If there is a present obligation there are signi cant a provision should recognised.
judgements in determining the measurement of Assessing provisions: We critically assessed provisions, which are subject to the future outcome and challenged the adequacy of provisions of legal or regulatory processes.
and contingent liability disclosures including We focused on the risk of material misstatement managements ability to reliably estimate any arising from ongoing investigations by regulators, monetary penalties.
Our procedures included speci cally in the US relating to the possible comparing assumptions to historical data, approved violation of US sanction laws and regulations.
settlement agreements and enquiry of lawyers.
Refer to note 26 under Other ongoing Assessing transparency: Assessed whether investigations and review in relation to the Groups the disclosures related to signi cant litigation and ongoing discussions with the relevant US authorities regulatory matters adequately disclose the potential regarding the resolution of this investigation.
liabilities and the signi cant uncertainties that exist.
As discussed in note 26, it is acknowledged that the Our results: We considered the provisions for resolution of the investigation may involve a range of legal and regulatory matters recognised, including civil and criminal penalties for sanctions compliance the related disclosures and the contingent liability violations including substantial monetary penalties.
disclosure made in note 26, to be acceptable As also discussed in note 26 there are ongoing 2016: acceptable.
discussions with the UK regulators in relation to financial crime controls in the correspondent banking business.
193 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report Key audit matter The risk Our response Impairment of loans Subjective estimate Our procedures included: and advances The carrying value of loans and advances to Control design, observation and operation: Charge: $1,362 million banks and customers held at amortised cost may We tested the design and operation of manual 2016: $2,791 million be materially misstated if individual or collective and automated controls over the individual impairments are not appropriately identi ed and impairment provision including: Provision: $5,707 million estimated.
The identi cation of impaired assets and 2016: $6,518 million the accuracy of data input into the system the estimation of impairment including estimates of used for credit grading and the approval of Corporate & Institutional Banking future cash ows and valuation of collateral involve credit facilities CIB clients, Commercial Banking signi cant management judgement.
CB clients and Private Banking the ongoing monitoring and identi cation of loans The collective impairment on CIB, CB and Retail clients collectively larger clients displaying indicators of impairment and whether loans and advances include overlays to the model represent 72 per cent $264 billion they are migrating, on a timely basis, to early alert calculated collective impairment.
These overlays are of the Groups net loan exposure, or to grades 12 to 14 including generation of days calculated and assessed based on managements whereas Retail clients represent past due reports.
judgement of the performance of the book.
Assessing overlays: We assessed the adequacy The most signi cant areas are: Refer to page 64 Audit Committee of management overlays to the modelled collective Report, page 218 note 8 Impairment Loan exposures in India due to high debt levels provision for CIB, CB and Retail by recalculating the losses on loans and advances and and weak balance sheets, regulatory reform and coverage provided by the collective impairment other credit risk provisions and page the poor performance of certain sectors such as 249 note 16 Loans and and advances provision including overlays to loan book, taking telecoms and power to banks and customers including into account recent loss history, performance and accounting policies fide-risking of the relevant portfolios.
We assessed Oil and gas support service related exposures the areas identi ed as most signi cant opposite following sustained depression of oil prices in using external data and challenged whether the prior years modelled collective impairment provision already appropriately re ected them or if an overlay was required.
Assessing individual exposures: We selected a sample based on quantitative thresholds of larger clients where impairment indicators had been identi ed by management.
We obtained managements assessment of the recoverability of these exposures including individual provisions calculations and challenged whether individual impairment provisions, or lack of, were appropriate.
This included the following procedures: challenging the recoverability of the forecast cash ows by comparing them to historical performance of the customer and the expected future performance where applicable: and assessing external collateral valuers credentials and comparing external valuations to values used in managements impairment assessments For a risk based sample of CIB and CB loans credit grades 1 to 11 not identi ed as displaying indicators of impairment by management, challenged this assessment by reviewing the historical performance of the customer and formed our own view whether any impairment indicators were present.
Our results: We considered the credit impairment charge and provision recognised and the related disclosures to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Standard Chartered 194 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information Key audit matter The risk Our response Goodwill impairment Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: Impairment: $320 million Goodwill may be misstated if the carrying value of Methodology assessment: Assessed whether 2016: $166 million goodwill in the balance sheet is not supported by the resegmentation of the CGUs re ects our the estimated discounted future cash ows of the understanding of the business and how it operates Goodwill: $3,252 million underlying businesses.
including assessment of the independence of the 2016: $3,456 million underlying cash ows.
Subjective estimate Refer to page 64 Audit Committee Benchmarking assumptions: For a sample Report and page 251 note 18 The identi cation of indicators of impairment and Goodwill and Intangible assets of CGUs including those identi ed opposite, the preparation of the estimate of recoverable including accounting policies compared the growth rate assumptions to amount involves subjective judgments and externally derived data for key inputs, including uncertainties.
Our work focused on the CGUs which have low Our expertise: Our valuation specialists critically headroom or signi cantly reduced headroom assessed the appropriateness of the discount rates following the re-segmentation see note 18, for a sample of CGUs including those identi ed including: opposite, independently calculating discount rate Taiwan ranges using external data sources and peer bank data for local risk free rates, betas and market India country entity risk premiums.
Sensitivity analysis: Performing breakeven analysis on the discount rate, the future cash ows and gross domestic product projections.
Historical comparison: Assessed managements ability to accurately prepare forecasts compared to actual results.
Consistency comparison: Assessed the consistency of projected cash ows to the Board approved corporate plan.
Our results: We considered the goodwill impairment charge, carrying value of goodwill recognised and the related disclosures to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Valuation of financial Subjective estimate Our procedures included: instruments held at fair value The valuation of level 3 financial instruments held at Controls operation: We tested the Groups Fair value of level 3 asset positions fair value through pro t or loss or as  over the identi cation and measurement of $1,938 million comprising sale may be misstated due to the application of level 3 financial instruments including independent 1.0 per cent of total fair value valuation techniques which often involve the price veri cation controls and pricing inputs.
financial instrument assets exercise of judgement and the use of assumptions Methodology assessment: We assessed, for a 2016: $2.3 billion, 1.2 per cent and estimates.
selection of level 3 investments, the reasonableness Fair value of level 3 liability A subjective estimate exists for instruments of valuation methodology, model calculation, inputs positions $536 million comprising where the valuation method uses signi cantly and assumptions used, considering potential 0.8% of total fair value unobservable inputs, which is principally the alternatives and sensitivities to key factors, for financial instrument liabilities case for level 3 financial instruments.
example EBITDA and PE multiples for Principal 2016: $0.8 billion, 1.0% Finance investments.
Our work focused on the following: Refer to page 64 Audit Committee Disclosures: We assessed the methodology Valuation of level 3 positions, including unlisted Report, page 234 accounting policy applied for the fair value hierarchy.
For a sample of investments in the Principal Finance business and page 227 note 13 Financial level 2 and 3 financial instruments we challenged instruments and derivatives with signi cant unobservable the appropriateness of the levelling classi cation.
pricing inputs This included determining whether level 2 financial Modelling of, and key inputs into, the valuation instruments met the requisite criteria to be classi ed of derivative and other instruments classi ed as such.
For level 3 positions, we assessed the as level 3 transparency of the financial statement disclosures, including sensitivity to key inputs re ect the Groups Disclosure of level 3 financial assets and exposure to valuation risk.
liabilities held at fair value, including the assessment of observability of pricing inputs Our results: We considered the valuation of level 3 financial instruments held at fair value and the related disclosures to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
195 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report Key audit matter The risk Our response Information technology Processing error Our procedures included: The Groups key financial accounting and reporting Refer to page 66 General IT controls design, observation and Audit Committee Report processes are highly dependent on the automated operation: Tested a sample of key controls controls over the Groups information systems, such operating over the information technology in that there exists a risk that gaps in the IT control relation to financial accounting and reporting environment could result in the financial accounting systems, including system access and system and reporting records being materially misstated.
change management, program development and computer operations.
We have focused on user access management, segregation of duties and controls over system User access controls operation: We obtained change over key financial accounting and managements evaluation of the access rights reporting systems.
granted to applications relevant to financial accounting and reporting systems and tested resolution of a sample of exceptions.
We also assessed the operating effectiveness of controls over granting, removal and appropriateness of access rights.
Our results: We considered the user access management, segregation of duties and change management controls in relation to financial accounting and reporting systems to be acceptable 2016: acceptable.
Company: recoverability Low risk, high value Our procedures included: of Parent Companys The carrying value of the Parent Companys Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount investment in subsidiaries investment in subsidiaries represents 55 per cent of a sample of the highest value investments, Investment in subsidiaries of the companys total assets.
Recoverability of representing 99 per cent of the total investment $34,853 million 2016: the investment is not considered a high risk of balance with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance $33,853 million signi cant misstatement or subject to signi cant sheet to identify whether their net assets, being judgement.
However, due to the materiality of the an approximation of their minimum recoverable Refer to page 64 Audit Committee investment in the context of the parent company amount, were in excess of their carrying amount Report, page 274 note 32 Investment financial statements, this is considered to be the in subsidiary undertakings, joint and assessing whether those subsidiaries have ventures and associates including area that had the greatest focus of our overall historically been pro t-making.
accounting policies parent company audit.
Assessing subsidiary audits: We assessed the work performed by the subsidiary audit team on that sample of those subsidiaries and considered the results of that work, on those subsidiaries pro ts and net assets.
Our results: We considered the Companys assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
Standard Chartered 196 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information 1 Group profit before tax % Group total assets % 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit 2 12 10 8 5 Materiality 13 11 9 Materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set with 88% 98% reference to a benchmark of pro t before tax for the period 2016: 92% 2016: 95% representing 4.1 per cent of the benchmark.
The prior year materiality used 4.3 per cent of a four-year normalised average Group pro t 83 82 before tax to mitigate volatility in determining our materiality.
As results 87 88 are less volatile, an average benchmark was no longer considered necessary.
2017 2016 Full scope for group audit purposes Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole specified risk-focused audit procedures was set at $100 million 2016: $150 million, determined with reference Residual components to a benchmark of net assets, of which it represents 0.4 per cent 1 Calculation used absolute pro t before tax.
Speci ed risk focused audit procedures 2016: 0.5 per cent.
coverage was calculated using absolute income and expense.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identi ed misstatements affecting Group pro t and loss Scope disclosure of IFRS 9 effect or Group shareholders funds exceeding $5 million 2016: $7.5 million The Group is adopting IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from 1 January and affecting Group assets or liabilities exceeding $50 million 2016: 2018 and have included an estimate of the financial impact of the $75 million, in addition to other identi ed misstatements that warrant change in accounting standard in accordance with IAS 8 Changes in reporting on qualitative grounds.
Accounting Estimates and Errors as set out in note 41.
This disclosure notes that the Group continues to re ne its expected credit loss model The Group team instructed component and hub auditors as to the and embed its operational processes which may change the actual signi cant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks and the impact on adoption.
While further testing of the financial impact will information to be reported to the Group team.
The Group team be performed as part of our 2018 year end audit, we have performed approved the component materiality levels, which ranged from suf cient audit procedures for the purposes of assessing the $1 million to $40 million, having regard to the size and risk pro le disclosures made in accordance with IAS 8.
Speci cally we have: of the components.
Considered the appropriateness of key technical decisions, Group profit before tax Group materiality judgements, assumptions and elections made by management $2.4bn 2016: $3.5bn $100m 2016: $150m Considered key Classi cation and Measurement decisions, 100m including Business Model Assessments and Solely Payment Whole financial statements materiality of Principal and Interest SPPI outcomes 2016: $150m Involved credit risk modelling and economic specialists in the consideration of credit risk modelling decisions and macroeconomic variables, including forward economic 40m guidance and generation of multiple economic scenarios Range of materiality at 35 components $1m to $40m 2016: $1m to $40m Considered transitional controls and governance processes 5m related to the approval of the estimated transitional impact Misstatements reported to the audit committee 2016: $7.5m Team structure Scope general As part of determining the scope and preparing the audit plan and strategy, the Group team led a global planning conference to discuss The scoping of our audit is focused on those components which are key audit risks and obtain input from component and hub teams.
either individually signi cant or contain signi cant risks.
Components subject to speci ed audit procedures as shown in the table below Aside from the audit of the parent company, consolidation, valuation were not individually nancially signi cant to require an audit for of financial instruments, collective impairment provision methodology, Group reporting purposes, but were either scoped on the basis of goodwill impairment, material litigation and regulatory provisions, the signi cant volume of liquid assets and transactions processed US deferred tax asset and IAS 8 disclosures in relation to IFRS 9, in those components or contained signi cant risks which were all audit work was performed by component or hub auditors.
Additionally we continued to scope speci ed audit Further, the Group team visited 8 2016: 11 component and hub procedures on one of the Group joint ventures, which had high levels locations, including China, Hong Kong, India, Bangladesh, Singapore, of credit impairment in the previous year.
All central processing hubs South Korea, Malaysia and US.
At these visits and meetings, the shared service centres where in-scope financial reporting processes findings reported to the Group team and any further work required by are performed were subject to speci ed audit procedures, primarily the Group team were discussed in more detail.
Regular conference over transaction processing and IT controls.
calls were also held with these component auditors and the majority 2017 2016 of the other countries that were not physically visited.
1 Total Group components 172 178 The Group team inspected the component teams key work papers Subject to full scope audit 35 35 related to the signi cant risks and assessed the appropriateness of Subject to speci ed procedures 4 4 conclusions and the consistency between reported findings and work performed.
Hubs subject to speci ed audit procedures 8 8 1 Component fide ned as a reporting component within the Groups consolidation system, typically these are a branch or subsidiary of the Group.
197 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report Corporate governance disclosures 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: We are required to report to you if: we have identi ed material inconsistencies between the knowledge we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors to the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on statement that they consider that the annual report and financial the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable uncertainties that may cast signi cant doubt over the Group and and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months the Groups position and performance, business model and from the date of approval of the financial statements: or strategy: or the related statement under the Listing Rules is materially the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated We have nothing to report in these respects.
by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance 5.
We have nothing to report on the other Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven information in the Annual Report provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed by the Listing Rules for our review.
The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion We have nothing to report in these respects.
on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
on which we are required to report by exception Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, in our opinion: the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent that work we have not identi ed material misstatements in the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received other information.
from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Strategic report and directors report Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Based solely on our work on the other information: with the accounting records and returns: or we have not identi ed material misstatements in the strategic report certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are and the directors report: not made: or in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial we have not received all the information and explanations we year is consistent with the financial statements: and require for our audit.
in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance We have nothing to report in these respects.
Respective responsibilities Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Directors responsibilities be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 115, Companies Act 2006. the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satis ed that they give a true and fair Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements the preparation of financial statements that are free from material audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and relation to: parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, the directors con rmation within the Viability statement on page 43 as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: realistic alternative but to do so.
the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining Auditors responsibilities how they are being managed and mitigated: and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the directors explanation in the Viability statement of how they have the financial statements as a whole are free from material assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, to any necessary quali cations or assumptions.
individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to in uence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors financial statements.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
uk  Standard Chartered 198 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Risk review and capital review FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Supplementary information Irregularities ability to detect We identi ed relevant areas of laws and regulations from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related annual accounts items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the speci c areas of regulatory capital and liquidity, conduct and financial crime including money laundering, sanctions list and market abuse regulations recognising the financial and regulated nature of the Groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related annual accounts items.
Further detail in respect of legal and regulatory matters is set out in the key audit matter disclosures in section 2 of this report.
We communicated identi ed laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identi ed at Group level, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identi ed by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Michelle Hinchliffe Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 27 February 2018 199
