Financial Results Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 191 I Independent auditors report to the members of VirginMoney Holdings UK plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion Basis for opinion In our opinion, Virgin Money Holdings UK plcs Group We conducted our audit in accordance with International financial statements and Parent Company financial Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
statements the financial statements : Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash provide a basis for our opinion.
flows for the year then ended: Independence have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as We remained independent of the Group in accordance with adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial in accordance with these requirements.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that nonWe have audited the financial statements, included within audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
comprise: the Group and Parent Company balance sheets Other than those disclosed in note 6 to the financial as at 31 December 2017: the Group income statement, the statements, we have provided no non-audit services Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group and to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from Parent Company statements of cash flows, and the Group and 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 13.4 million 2016: 9.8 million, based on 5% of adjusted profit before tax, adjusted for 6.5 million of strategic items as detailed in note 2, as these are not considered to be recurring.
This adjusted measure of profit is deemed as the most appropriate benchmark upon which to base our materiality.
Materiality We performed a full scope audit over the Groups five 100% owned subsidiaries and certain Special Purpose Vehicle SPV balances were scoped in on a line by line basis based on their proportion of the consolidated financial statement line item.
98% of interest income, 98% of profit before tax 98% of the adjusted profit before tax figure as used for Audit scope our overall materiality calculation and 99% of total assets were subject to audit.
Key audit matters included: Revenue recognition Effective Interest Rate EIR accounting.
Key audit matters Impairment of loans and advances to customers.
Disclosure of impact of adoption of IFRS 9.
192 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Independent auditors report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Report on the audit of the financial statements The scope of our audit There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality described above and the further removed non-compliance and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in become aware of it.
respect of significant accounting estimates that involved We did not identify any key audit matters relating to making assumptions and considering future events that are irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits, we inherently uncertain.
also addressed the risk of management override of internal We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including Key audit matters fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and significant Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the professional judgement, were of most significance in the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is audit of the financial statements of the current period and higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, include the most significant assessed risks of material as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the give rise to a material misstatement in the Group financial audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
statements, including but not limited to, the Companies Act These matters, and any comments we make on the results 2006, the Listing Rules, and UK tax legislation.
of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate documentation, review of correspondence with and reports to opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks the regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, identified by our audit.
enquiries of management, and review of internal audit reports Each of the key audit matters below related to our audit of in so far as they related to the financial statements.
Financial Results Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 193 I Independent auditors report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition Effective Interest Rate EIR accounting Across both the secured and unsecured lending EIR calculation models, we tested controls over data input and checked the accuracy See note 1 of the financial statements for the disclosure of the of model calculations.
We also assessed controls over the setting and relatedaccounting policies and critical estimates and judgements, approving of key assumptions.
and page 88 for the Audit Committees consideration of key financial issues and judgements.
We tested the impact of any changes in assumptions on the financial statements, ensuring these were calculated in accordance with The Groups total loans and advances to customers balance of 36.7 IAS39.
billion and net interest income of 594.6 million include certain EIR adjustments as per the requirements of IAS 39.
In relation to secured lending EIR, we: The vast majority of the income recognised by the Group is system Substantively tested a sample of fees incorporated within the generated and requires minimal judgement, therefore we focused calculation to underlying secured lending agreements and our work in relation to revenue recognition on EIR accounting due considered the appropriateness of the inclusion of fees in the EIR to the inherent subjectivity and complexity involved in forecasting calculation: and future customer behaviour on which the EIR adjustment calculation is Assessed the estimate of the expected life applied and forecast based.
Changes in assumptions used in the forecasting model could cash flows during this life by comparing to recent Group experience have a material impact on EIR adjustments and hence the revenue and expectations of future patterns.
recognised in any one accounting period.
We concluded that, whilst there is significant judgement inherent in The most significant assumption for secured lending EIR is the the secured EIR adjustment, the assumptions applied were within a estimation of the expected life of the product over which fees are reasonable range based on past experience and future assumptions.
In relation to unsecured lending EIR, we: For unsecured lending, significant judgement is applied in calculating Tested controls over the ongoing monitoring of actual credit the EIR adjustment including setting assumptions relating to card cash flows as compared with the forecast assumptions and movements in customer balances over the expected life and the compared 2017 experience with expected experience for that related future revenue associated with these balances in the context period on a sample basis: of the Groups historic experience.
Key assumptions include retail Assessed the key forecast assumptions, including expected life, spending levels and repayment rates.
balance, repayment rate, volume of retail spend and interest income earned by comparing to recent experience: Performed sensitivity analyses of key judgements to understand the materiality of the impact that potential realistic changes in assumptions may have, either individually or in combination, on the EIR asset: and Assessed the sufficiency of the disclosures in the financial statements relating to significant estimates made in the EIR calculation, including disclosure of sensitivities.
We concluded that, whilst there is significant judgement inherent in the unsecured EIR adjustment, the assumptions applied were within a reasonable range based on past experience and future assumptions.
We concluded that the disclosures in note 1 of the financial statements provide appropriate details of the degree and nature of estimation uncertainty and the impact on the financial statements of actual future customer experience differing from the assumptions made.
194 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Independent auditors report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment of loans and advances to customers We assessed and tested the design and operating effectiveness of the controls over data flows, model governance and setting and See note 1 of the financial statements for the disclosure of the approval of key assumptions used in the provisioning process.
relatedaccounting policies and critical estimates and judgements, and page 88 for the Audit Committees consideration of key financial As part of our detailed work, we: issues andjudgements.
Assessed the provision calculation methodology applied in the The impairment provision of 59.4 million consists of provisions context of industry practice and the requirements of accounting of 12.1 million in relation to secured lending and 47.3 million standards: in relation to unsecured lending.
Total loans and advances as at Tested key assumptions used within the models to internal and 31December 2017 relating to secured lending was 33.7 billion and external information where appropriate: 3.1billion for unsecured lending.
Tested that the model calculations were consistent with our We focused on this area because Management make subjective understanding of the Groups methodology and the requirements judgements over both the timing of recognition and the size of of accounting standards: and provisions for impairment of loans and advances.
This judgement Examined the basis for the judgemental overlays made to the includes considering the completeness of the provisions and whether results produced by models and assessing the rationale for the any specific judgemental overlays are appropriate to recognise the adjustments, as well as considering the completeness of the impact of emerging trends not captured in the impairment models.
The Group has developed historic data based models that derive We found the approach taken in relation to the Groups impairment key assumptions used within the provision calculation such as provisions to be consistent with the requirements of IAS 39 and probability of default PD and loss given default LGD.
The output of judgements made were reasonable.
these models is then applied to the provision calculation with other information including the selection of an appropriate loss emergence period LEP and the exposure at default EAD.
Recognition of intangible assets We assessed the Groups capitalisation policy to check that it met the requirements of IAS 38.
See note 1 of the financial statements for the disclosure of the related accounting policies and also page 88 for the Audit Committees We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the control consideration of key financial issues and judgements.
environment in relation to the recording and approval of project costs which form the basis of capitalisation accounting entries.
During 2017 certain technology project costs incurred by the Group were capitalised.
These projects require cash and non-cash resources We selected a sample of intangible assets and undertook the during development and management applies judgement in following procedures: considering whether or not costs should be capitalised in the context Substantively tested a selection of costs including those related of IAS 38. to new projects to check that these meet the criteria of IAS 38 for As technology and customer expectations continue to change there capitalisation as intangible assets: is a risk that certain technology assets may not generate the return Discussed material capitalised assets with management to identify that the Group had initially anticipated and therefore may be subject any that may be at higher risk of potential impairment: and to impairment.
Where higher risk items were noted, we discussed the asset and The Groups total net book value of intangible assets was 128.4 related forecast economic benefits with management to inform our million as at 31 December 2017. independent consideration as to whether any possible impairment triggers existed.
One item was noted by management as requiring impairment resulting in a charge of 4.8 million to the income statement.
This is disclosed in note 19.
We found the accounting treatment applied in recognising capitalised costs was consistent with the requirements of IAS 38 and we did not identify any material matters which we considered necessary to report to the Audit Committee.
Financial Results Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 195 I Independent auditors report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Disclosure of impact of adoption of IFRS 9 We read the disclosure as set out in note 37 to assess its compliance with the requirements of IAS 8.
We also tested the completeness and IFRS 9 became effective on 1 January 2018 and therefore does not accuracy of data inputs for the Groups material IFRS 9 models to affect the Balance Sheet and Income Statement of the Group as at identify any material inconsistencies with source system data.
Our detailed work in auditing the estimated 2018 opening However, under the requirements of IAS 8, the Group is required to impairment provisions included: disclose the estimated impact that new accounting standards will have on initial adoption.
Reading model documentation papers and assessing the Groups methodology and modelling approach in the context of our The Group has presented a transition disclosure in note 37. understanding of IFRS 9: Management estimate that the transition to IFRS 9 will reduce shareholders equity by approximately 35 million after deferred tax Independently estimating model outputs based on the Groups as at 1 January 2018. methodology and data for material IFRS 9 models and comparing our outcomes with those of management: and The most significant impact of adopting IFRS 9 to the Group relates to a change in the way that credit losses are recognised, moving from Comparing macroeconomic forecasts used by the Group for IFRS 9 an incurred loss to an expected loss basis for financial instruments purposes with third party market information.
The estimation of expected credit losses ECL We found the disclosure in respect of the transition to IFRS 9 and the for the disclosure required in these 2017 financial statements has estimated impact this has on shareholders equity to be consistent required significant judgement to be applied in the development of with the requirements of accounting standards.
This has required a more complex provision calculation methodology based on the application of differing levels of forecasting of losses.
This is dependent on whether a significant increase in credit risk has occurred, as well as an adjustment applied for the impact of multiple economic scenarios in the future.
As the statutory audit of subsidiaries is How we tailored the audit scope undertaken concurrently with the Group audit, all five We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed subsidiaries were designated as in-scope components for enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial Group audit purposes.
Additionally, certain SPV balances statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of were scoped in for audit on a line by line basis based on the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the their proportion of the consolidated financial statement industry in which the Group operates.
line item to ensure adequate overall audit coverage for each We updated our understanding of processes within the line item.
98% of interest income, 98% of profit before tax business in order to understand and evaluate the key financial 98% of the adjusted profit before tax figure as used for our processes and controls across the Group.
Our audit plan was overall materiality calculation and 99% of Total Assets were presented to the Audit Committee.
Following our procedures, subject to audit.
we were able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we form a basis for our audit opinion.
determined the type of work that needed to be performed over The consolidated financial statements include the Groups five the components.
All of the audit work was completed by the 100% owned subsidiaries as well as a number of securitisation Group engagement team.
196 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Independent auditors report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
These, together with qualitative considerations, Based on our professional judgement, we determined helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Overall materiality 13.4 million 2016: 9.8 million.
How we determined it 5% of adjusted profit before tax adjusted for 6.5 1% of total assets, capped to Group overall million of strategic items as detailed in note 2, as materiality of 13.4 million these are not considered to be recurring.
Rationale for benchmark applied This adjusted measure of profit is deemed as As the Company is not profit orientated on a solothe most appropriate measure of underlying entity basis, we have used 1% of total assets, but business performance and hence an appropriate cap this to the lower materiality of the Group.
benchmark upon which to base our materiality.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we whether the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across statements and the Directors identification of any material components was between 0.02 million and 13.0 million.
uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
them misstatements identified during our audit above We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
0.67 million Group audit 2016: 0.49 million and However, because not all future events or conditions can be 0.67 million Parent Company audit 2016: 0.14 million as predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
We are also required to report if the Directors statement Going concern relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule In accordance with ISAs UK we are required to report if we 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect obtained in the audit.
We have nothing to report.
of the Directors statement in the financial statements about Financial Results Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 197 I Independent auditors report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work Annual Report other than the financial statements and our we have performed, we conclude that there is a material auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the misstatement of this other information, we are required to other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do responsibilities.
not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
and Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered In connection with our audit of the financial statements, whether the disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 our responsibility is to read the other information and, have been included.
in doing so, consider whether the other information is Based on the responsibilities described above and our work materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material UK unless otherwise stated.
misstatement of the financial statements or a material Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information on pages 81, 89 and 126 to 188 of the Annual Report about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes, and in note 27 to the financial statements about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given on pages 71 to 94 of the Annual Report with respect to the Parent Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 132 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: and The Directors explanation on page 120 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules 198 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Independent auditors report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Reporting on other information Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 125, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing our audit: The section of the Annual Report on pages 88 and 89 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: and The Directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act2006.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of Responsibilities for the financial statements the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: and the audit www.
This description Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial forms part of our auditors report.
statements Use of this report As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for responsibilities set out on page 124, the Directors are and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in responsible for the preparation of the financial statements accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act in accordance with the applicable framework and for being 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other also responsible for such internal control as they determine is purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed that are free from material misstatement, whether due to by our prior consent in writing.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Financial Results Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 199 I Independent auditors report to the members of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Appointment Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we you if, in our opinion: were appointed by the members on 4 May 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 we have not received all the information and explanations we and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total require for our audit: or uninterrupted engagement is two years, covering the years adequate accounting records have not been kept by the ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017.
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of Catrin Thomas Senior Statutory Auditor the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in for and on behalf of  LLP agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Edinburgh We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
