Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Opinion of  on the financial report Independent auditors report to the members of Rio Tinto Limited of  LLP to the members of In our opinion: Rio Tinto plc and of  to the The accompanying financial report, defined below, is in accordance with members of Rio Tinto Limited the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order, including: giving a true and fair view of the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2017 and of its financial performance for the year then ended: and For the purpose of this report, the terms we and our denote  LLP in relation to UK legal, professional and complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of Regulations 2001.
Rio Tinto plc and  in relation to Australian legal, professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to What we have audited the members of Rio Tinto Limited.
"For the purposes of the table on pages The Group financial statements as defined below and the Rio Tinto plc 214 to 216 that sets out the key audit matters and how our audit financial statements as defined below are referred to in this report as the addressed the key audit matters, the terms ""we"" and ""our"" refer to financial statements."
The Group financial statements, note 45 Rio Tinto  LLP and or  and or our Limited parent company disclosures and the Directors declaration on page component teams.
The Group financial statements, as defined below, 210 are collectively referred to in this report as the financial report.
consolidate the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and their  LLP has audited the financial statements for the respective subsidiaries the Group and include the Groups share of joint arrangements and associates.
The Parent Companies are defined as year ended 31 December 2017.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
 has audited the Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards, the Directors Remuneration Report included in The relevant legislation governing the Parent companies is the United the Directors report and the financial report for the year ended 31 Kingdom Companies Act 2006 Companies Act 2006 for Rio Tinto plc and the Australian Corporations Act 2001 Corporations Act 2001 as December 2017. amended by the ASIC order dated 14 December 2015 the ASIC Order The Group financial statements, included within the Annual report and for Rio Tinto Limited.
Accounts the Annual report, comprise: the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2017: the Group income statement and Group statement of Report on the audit of the financial statements and the comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Group cash flow financial report statement for the year then ended: the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: notes 1 44 and 46 to the Group financial Opinion statements, which include a description of the significant accounting Opinion of  LLP on the financial policies and other explanatory information: the outline of dual listed statements to the members of Rio Tinto plc companies structure and basis of financial statements: and the Rio Tinto In our opinion: financial information by business unit.
the financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of Rio Tinto plcs affairs as at 31 December The Rio Tinto plc financial statements, included within the Annual report, 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: comprise: the Rio Tinto plc Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2017: the Rio Tinto plc Company statement of changes in equity for the year the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in then ended: and notes A-I to the Rio Tinto plc financial statements, which accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs include a description of the significant accounting policies and other as adopted by the European Union: explanatory information.
the Rio Tinto plc financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Basis for opinion Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and Auditing UK ISAs UK, Australian Auditing Standards ASAs and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
statements and financial report section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a  LLPs opinion is consistent with our reporting to basis for our opinion.
Independence Separate opinion of  LLP in  LLP remained independent of the Group in relation to financial statements prepared in accordance accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standards Board IASB Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
provided to the Group or Rio Tinto plc.
Other than those disclosed in note In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly 39 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
the Group or Rio Tinto plc in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
 remained independent of the Group in accordance with the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 and the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Boards APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants APES 110 that are relevant to our audit of 212 212 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information the financial report in Australia.
We have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with APES 110.
Our audit approach The Groups principal activities are minerals and metals exploration, development, production and processing.
The Group operates through four product groups which are supported by the Growth & Innovation group and other centralised functions.
Together these comprise 49 business units containing multiple reporting units.
Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: US$350 million 2016: US$275 million.
Overall Rio Tinto plc materiality: US$325 million 2016: US$250 million Scope We identified the Pilbara business unit as a significant component which required an audit of its complete financial information due to its financial significance to the Group.
Aside from the Pilbara, we obtained full scope reporting from a further 21 reporting units 2016: 21.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 16 reporting units 2016: 12, which comprised ten 2016: seven operating reporting units and six 2016: five central reporting units, such as treasury entities.
Key audit matters We assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements and the financial report and determined the following key audit matters for 2017: impairment assessments including indicators of impairment and impairment reversal, with a particular focus on exploration and evaluation assets Roughrider and property, plant and equipment at Oyu Tolgoi, Argyle, Grasberg and Rssing and indefinite-lived intangible assets in Rio Tinto Aluminium: provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations: and provisions for uncertain tax positions, with a particular focus on transfer pricing of certain transactions with the Groups commercial centre in Singapore.
Compared with last year, based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement, we did not consider defined benefit pension plan surpluses and deficits to be a key audit matter, as we have not identified material misstatements or had to communicate significant matters to the Audit Committee in recent years and there were no new risk factors this year.
The scope of our audit and our key audit matters As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override As part of designing our audit we determined materiality and assessed of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements and the bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due financial report.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made to fraud.
subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the statements and financial report of the current period and include the most legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group that fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the designed audit procedures to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements and deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional the financial report as a whole, and in forming our opinions thereon, and misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We designed audit procedures we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a that focused on the risk that non-compliance with the Companies Act complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
We note that there are no 2006, the Corporations Act 2001, the UK Listing Rules and or the Listing key audit matters specifically applicable to Rio Tinto plc.
Rules of the Australian Stock Exchange, gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements.
In assessing compliance with laws and regulations, our tests included checking the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, assessment of certain component auditors work, enquiries with management and enquiries of legal counsel.
com 213 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and of  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited c continued ontinued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment reversal of impairment assessment For material property, plant and equipment, finite-lived intangible assets The Group has goodwill of US$1,037 million, indefinite-lived intangible and exploration and evaluation assets we undertook the following to assets of US$1,824 million, finite-lived intangible assets of US$1,295 assess for indicators of impairment impairment reversal: million including exploration and evaluation assets of US$393 million satisfied ourselves as to the appropriateness of managements and property, plant and equipment of US$62,093 million as at 31 identification of the Groups CGUs and the continued satisfactory December 2017.
Impairment charges to each of these asset categories operation of the Groups controls over the impairment assessment have been recognised in previous years.
process: All cash generating units CGUs containing goodwill and indefiniteevaluated managements assessment of impairment indicators, as well lived intangible assets must be tested for impairment annually.
as indicators of impairment reversal, including the conclusions reached: Management must also determine the recoverable amount for other and assets including finite-lived intangible assets, property, plant and where applicable, understood the progress of any capital development equipment and exploration and evaluation assets when impairment programs against planned expenditure.
indicators or indicators of impairment reversal are identified.
The determination of recoverable amount, being the higher of value-inIn addition, specifically for the Oyu Tolgoi project, we: use VIU and fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD, requires understood the impact of the latest life of mine assumptions and judgement on the part of management in identifying and then estimating assessed managements competence and objectivity in preparing the the recoverable amount for the relevant CGUs.
Recoverable amounts are latest mine plans: and based on managements view of key internal value driver inputs and considered the current project status and the length of time remaining external market conditions such as future commodity prices, the timing to complete the underground mine and the associated complexity of and approval of future capital and operating expenditure, and the most doing so, and thereby satisfied ourselves that developments in 2017 appropriate discount rate.
did not give rise to an impairment or impairment reversal trigger for the Specific CGUs where we focussed our procedures included the following: Oyu Tolgoi CGU.
Oyu Tolgoi In instances where an impairment trigger was identified, or where an The development of the underground mine has progressed as planned annual impairment test was required by accounting standards, such as for during 2017.
The operating assets of the Oyu Tolgoi CGU as at 31 goodwill balances and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including water December 2017 were US$8.3 billion.
rights in Rio Tinto Aluminium, we: Argyle assessed whether the underlying impairment model has been prepared As a result of lower production volumes compared with forecast, a in accordance with the Groups impairment methodology: smaller than expected contribution from productivity improvements and lower prices achieved for bulk diamonds, an impairment trigger was ensured that the forecasts and life of mine plans in the impairment identified for the Argyle CGU.
assessment are consistent with the most up-to-date budgets, mine plan, production assumptions or other supporting documentation that Management increased its closure cost estimates during the year based has been formally approved by management: on the findings to date from its latest ongoing technical studies.
agreed the principal economic assumptions underpinning the Management determined that the projected cash-flows from the business impairment model to supporting evidence or data assessed by our did not support retaining a carrying value for the long term assets.
valuation experts: A total pre-tax impairment charge of US$172 million was recorded in performed sensitivity analysis over the key assumptions in the relation to Argyle.
valuation model: and checked the mathematical accuracy of managements valuation models Grasberg and relevant data.
New regulations affecting aspects of the Contract of Works agreement between Freeport and the Government of Indonesia were issued in 2017, In addition to our overall response to impairment described above, we impacting PT Freeport Indonesias operating rights and negatively performed additional procedures on certain projects or reporting units impacting production forecasts.
where an impairment trigger was identified: These new developments in the legal and political environment impacting Argyle the economics of the operation were identified by management as an agreed the revised closure provision cash flows to managements impairment trigger.
model, and ensured the impact of this revision is included in the Management performed an impairment test predicated on estimated recoverable amount assessment.
cash flows under the Participation Agreement, which supported the Grasberg carrying value of the CGU.
assessed managements conclusions in relation to the impact of the Uranium assets Government of Indonesias new mining regulations, including the effect An impairment indicator was identified for the Roughrider uranium on production forecasts: and deposit as a result of reduced planned exploration expenditure.
An assessed whether the mine operating and capital assumptions in the impairment indicator was also identified for Rssing as a result of cash flow model were consistent with the underlying joint operation structural changes in forecast uranium prices.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Key audit matter continued How our audit addressed the key audit matter continued Uranium assets continued Uranium assets Management has assessed the recoverable amount of the assets, and agreed managements uranium price forecasts and other relevant determined that the exploration and evaluation assets for Roughrider and economic assumptions with reference to independent broker and property, plant and equipment and intangible assets for Rssing were analyst reports: and fully impaired, resulting in pre-tax impairment charges of US$357 million confirmed that there is no further substantive expenditure budgeted or and US$267 million respectively.
planned to evaluate the Roughrider deposit.
Refer to note 6 for managements conclusions and the Audit Committees We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 6 views set out on page 64. to the financial statements.
Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues from our work.
Provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental obligations We assessed managements process for the review of closure provisions, The Group has provisions for close-down, restoration and environmental and performed detailed testing for 8 reporting units that had a movement in their closure provision in the year or a closure provision as at obligations of US$9,983 million as at 31 December 2017.
31 December 2017 that was above the respective individual components The calculation of these provisions requires management judgement in materiality level 2016: 10 reporting units.
estimating the quantum and timing of future costs, particularly given the unique nature of each site, the long timescales involved and the potential As part of our detailed testing of the cost estimates prepared by associated obligations.
These calculations also require management to management for the 8 reporting units selected, we established the determine an appropriate rate to discount future costs to their net existence of legal and or constructive obligations with respect to the present value.
closure provision and considered the intended method of restoration and rehabilitation and associated cost estimate.
The judgement required to estimate such costs is compounded by the fact that there has been limited restoration and rehabilitation activity and We also considered the competence and objectivity of managements historical precedent against which to benchmark estimates of future costs.
experts, whether internal or external to the Group, who produced the cost estimates and, where appropriate, engaged our own internal expert to Management reviews the close-down, restoration and environmental assess the work performed by managements experts.
obligations on an annual basis, using experts to provide support in its assessment where appropriate.
This review incorporates the effects of We checked the mathematical accuracy of managements calculations any changes in local regulations and managements anticipated approach and assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate using our to restoration and rehabilitation.
As at 31 December 2017, the total provision held on the balance sheet In addition to the overall response to the risk described above, we has increased from US$8,722 million to US$9,983 million.
performed additional procedures in respect of the largest increase in obligations during the year: Refer to notes 2 and 26, and the Audit Committees views set out on page 64. read the latest available technical studies and assessed the appropriateness of the scope of work performed by management and the various third party experts: and considered whether the updates in provision reflect changes to previous estimates or the correction of prior period errors.
For the in scope reporting units that did not have a movement in the year, or a closure provision as at 31 December 2017, that was above the respective individual components materiality level, we considered whether the provision relating to close-down, restoration and environmental obligations was consistent with our understanding of the obligations associated with the operation and the remediation plans.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in notes 2 and 26 to the financial statements.
com 215 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and of  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited continued continued Key audit matter continued How our audit addressed the key audit matter continued Provisions for uncertain tax positions We assessed managements process for identifying uncertain tax The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is subject positions and the related accounting policy of providing for tax exposures.
to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of tax matters We engaged our tax specialists to understand the current status of tax during the normal course of business, including transfer pricing, indirect assessments and investigations and to monitor developments in ongoing taxes and transaction related tax matters.
We read recent rulings and correspondence with local tax As at 31 December 2017, the Group has current and non-current authorities, as well as external advice received by the Group where taxes payable of US$2,248 million.
Where the amount of tax payable is relevant, to satisfy ourselves that the tax provisions had been uncertain, the Group establishes provisions based on managements best appropriately recorded or adjusted to reflect the latest external estimate of the most likely outcome.
In relation to specific uncertain tax positions, we focussed on matters In addition to our overall response to the risk described above, we relating to the transfer pricing of certain transactions between the performed additional procedures in respect of the Groups Singapore Groups entities based in Australia and the Groups commercial centre in commercial centre as follows: Singapore.
Over the past financial year, the Group has been in continued read the latest available correspondence between management and discussions with the Australian Taxation Office on these matters.
the relevant tax authorities and expert reports to assess the continued Refer to notes 2 and 9, and the Audit Committees views set out on page appropriateness of the provision recognised by management: 64. checked the mathematical accuracy of managements provision calculations and agreed relevant input data to supporting records: engaged our experts in the field of transfer pricing to evaluate the basis on which the provision has been determined: and tested payments to the tax authorities, where applicable.
Based on the procedures performed, we determined the provision reflects managements current best estimate of the expected economic outflow.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in notes 2 and 9 to the financial statements.
Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues arising from our work.
How we tailored the audit scope As the Group engagement team, we tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give opinions on the financial statements and the financial report as a whole, taking into account the geographical structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised into four product groups - Aluminium, Copper & Diamonds, Energy & Minerals and Iron Ore, all of which are supported by the Growth & Innovation group and other centralised functions.
Each product group is made up of a number of operating businesses which represent separate business units.
Each business unit is comprised of individual reporting units which align to discrete operations.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
We determined the appropriate reporting units to perform work on based on factors such as the size of the balances, the key audit matters as noted above and known accounting matters, and to include unpredictability in our audit procedures.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from either other PwC network firms or non-PwC firms operating under our instruction.
We identified the Pilbara reporting unit as a significant component as defined within ISAs UK and ASAs which, in our view, required an audit of its complete financial information, due to its financial significance to the Group.
Outside of the Pilbara reporting unit, we obtained full scope reporting from a further 21 reporting units 2016: 21.
Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 16 reporting units 2016: 12, which comprised ten 2016: seven operating reporting units and six 2016: five central reporting units, such as treasury entities, primarily to ensure appropriate audit coverage.
As we seek to vary our audit procedures each year to ensure an element of unpredictability, two different smaller reporting units 2016: two were included in our Group audit scope for 2017.
We also performed work centrally on IT general controls, journals, taxation and pensions.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinions on the Group financial statements and financial report as a whole.
We issued formal written instructions to all component auditors setting out the audit work to be performed by each of them and maintained regular communication with the component auditors throughout the audit cycle.
These interactions included attending certain component clearance meetings and holding regular conference calls, as well as reviewing and assessing any matters reported.
The Group engagement team also reviewed selected audit working papers for certain component teams.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information In addition, senior members of the Group engagement team visited component teams across all four product groups in Canada, Australia, Indonesia, Mongolia, Singapore, South Africa and the United States of America.
These visits included meetings with local management and with the component auditors, and typically operating site tours.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements and the financial report as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements and the financial report as a whole as follows: Overall materiality Overall Group materiality US$350 million 2016: US$275 million.
Overall Rio Tinto plc materiality: US$325 million 2016: US$250 million.
How we determined it For overall Group materiality we used an average of underlying earnings before tax as defined in note 2 to the financial statements of the current and previous three years 2016: average underlying earnings before tax of the current year and previous three years.
For overall Rio Tinto plc materiality we used total assets.
Rationale for benchmark For overall Group materiality, we chose to use an adjusted underlying earnings measure as the benchmark because an applied adjusted measure removes the impact of material items which do not recur from year to year or otherwise significantly affect the underlying trend of performance from continuing operations.
This is the metric against which the performance of the Group is most commonly assessed by management and reported to members.
Our approach to determine materiality is based on a four year average of profit before tax adjusted for items excluded from underlying earnings.
The adoption of a multi-year average benchmark for materiality will respond to longer-term trends in commodity markets and will reduce volatility in the measure year-on-year.
Using our professional judgement, we determined materiality for this year at US$350 million, which equates to approximately 2.9% of the current years underlying earnings before tax.
For overall Rio Tinto plc materiality we determined our materiality based on total assets, which is more applicable than a performance-related measure as the company is an investment holding company for the Group.
Using our professional judgement, we determined materiality for this year at US$325 million, which equates to approximately 0.7% of the current years total assets.
Component materiality For each reporting unit component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that was less than our overall Group materiality.
The materiality allocated to each component was between US$15 million and US$320 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above US$25 million 2016: US$25 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Reporting obligation In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: We are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in respect of the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Rio Tinto plcs ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of the approval of the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Rio Tinto plcs ability to continue as a going concern.
We are also required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We have nothing to report.
In accordance with ASAs: We are required to conclude on the appropriateness of the directors' use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors report to the related disclosures in the financial report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion.
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors report.
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
com 217 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Independent auditors report of  LLP to the members of Rio Tinto plc and of  to the members of Rio Tinto Limited c continued ontinued Reporting on other information  LLP The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and the Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Rio Tinto plc and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatement in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 18 of the Annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 18 of the Annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Rio Tinto plc and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 109, that they consider the Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Rio Tinto plcs position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Rio Tinto plc acquired in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual report on page 64 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to Rio Tinto plcs compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Reporting on other information  A further description of  LLPs responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: The directors are responsible for the other information.
A further description of information comprises the information included in the Annual report for  responsibilities for the audit of the financial the year ended 31 December 2017, other than the financial report and report is located on the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website our auditors report thereon.
The Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information descriptions on these websites form part of the auditors report for and accordingly we do not express any form of assurance conclusion  LLP and  respectively.
Use of this report In connection with our audit of the financial report, our responsibility is to This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other members of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited as a body in accordance information is materially inconsistent with the financial report or our with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of Rio knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially Tinto plc and the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order misstated.
in respect of Rio Tinto Limited and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Corporations Act 2001 opinion Other required reporting  LLP Under the Corporations Act 2001 in respect of Rio Tinto Limited we are Companies Act 2006 exception reporting required to express an opinion on the Directors Remuneration Report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our based on our audit conducted in accordance with ASAs.
opinion: Opinion on the Remuneration Report we have not received all the information and explanations we require We have audited the Remuneration Report included on pages 70 to 105 of for our audit: the Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2017. adequate accounting records have not been kept by Rio Tinto plc, or In our opinion, the Remuneration Report of Rio Tinto Limited complies returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches with the requirements of section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001 as not visited by us: or amended by the ASIC Order.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not Responsibilities made: or The directors of Rio Tinto Limited are responsible for the preparation and the Rio Tinto plc financial statements and the part of the Directors presentation of the Remuneration Report in accordance with section 300A Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the of the Corporations Act 2001 as amended by the ASIC Order.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Remuneration Report, We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
based on our audit conducted in accordance with ASAs.
Appointment  LLP and Responsibilities for the financial statements, the financial  report and the audit  LLP and  have acted as Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements and auditors of Rio Tinto since its formation under a dual listed company structure in 1995. financial report As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities set A predecessor firm of  LLP was appointed by the out on page 210, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the members of a predecessor company of Rio Tinto plc on 8 May 1958 to financial statements and the financial report in accordance with the audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 May 1958 and applicable financial reporting frameworks and for being satisfied that they subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such engagement is 60 years, covering the years ended 31 May 1958 to 31 internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation December 2017. of financial statements and the financial report that are free from material A predecessor firm of  was appointed by the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
members of a predecessor company of Rio Tinto Limited on 31 December In preparing the financial statements and financial report, the directors 1959 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December are responsible for assessing the Groups and Parent Companies ability 1959 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related engagement is 59 years, covering the years ended 31 December 1959 to to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 31 December 2017. the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Companies or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and financial report Paul Barkus Debbie Smith, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Senior Statutory Auditor Partner financial statements and financial report as a whole are free from material for and on behalf of for and on behalf of misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors  LLP  report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of Chartered Accountants and assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance Statutory Auditors with ISAs UK and ASAs will always detect a material misstatement Brisbane, Australia London, United Kingdom when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 28 February 2018 28 February 2018 considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements or financial report.
