ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF METRO BANK PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Metro Bank PLCs consolidated financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and Company statements of cash flows, and the consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 7 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 1.9 million 2016: 2.0 million, based on 5% of the average profit or loss before tax of the last 5 years.
Overall parent materiality: 2.0 million 2016: 2.1 million, based on 5% of the average profit or loss Materiality before tax of the last 5 years.
The Group is composed of three operating entities: Metro Bank PLC, SME Invoice Finance Limited and SME Asset Finance Limited, which are referred to in our report as business components.
The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were Audit scope determined by our risk assessment, the financial significance of business components and other qualitative factors including history of misstatement through fraud or error.
We performed audit procedures over business components considered financially significant in the context of the Group full scope audit or in the context of individual primary statement account Key audit balances audit of specific account balances.
We performed other procedures including testing entity matters level controls, information technology general controls and analytical review procedures to mitigate the risk of material misstatement in the non-financially significant business components.
80 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC The areas of focus for our audit which involved the greatest allocation of our resources and effort were: Impairment of loans to customers Group and Company Recognition of revenue on loans to customers Group and Company Recognition of the deferred tax asset in respect of trading tax losses Group and Company These items were discussed with the Audit Committee as part of our audit plan communicated in September 2017 and updated in November 2017.
These were the key audit matters for discussion at the conclusion of our audit.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, UK tax legislation and the Financial Conduct Authoritys and Prudential Regulation Authoritys regulations.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with the regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We found the risk of fraud in revenue recognition related to customer loans to be a key audit matter, and this is discussed further below.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
81 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF METRO BANK PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment of loans to customers We focused on this area because management make We understood and tested the design and operating effectiveness of the controls over data and calculations used in the provisioning significant judgements over both the timing of recognition of impairment provisions and the estimation of the size of any process.
These controls included those over: the identification of which loans and advances were impaired: such provision.
the transfer of data from source systems to impairment models and model output to the general ledger: Management estimate specific impairment provisions on individually significant balances, typically corporate loans.
A the governance over the impairment processes: and the calculation of the impairment provisions.
collective model based provision is then estimated for all other exposures, both retail and corporate, not subject to a specific We determined that these controls were designed, implemented provision.
The collective model approach underpins the material portion of the Groups impairment provisions.
and operated effectively and therefore we determined that we could place reliance on them for the purposes of our audit.
We focused our audit on the following areas: In addition we performed the following substantive procedures: The identification of impairment events, which differs depending on the type of lending product and customer, Specific impairment including how unidentified impairment customers that have had a loss event that has not yet manifested itself in a missed For loans identified by management as potentially impaired we examined the forecasts of future cash flows prepared by payment or other indicator and any forbearance are taken into account.
management to support the calculation of the impairment, critically assessed the underlying assumptions and corroborated The key assumptions and judgements made by management that underlie the calculation of provisions.
From the testing performed we determined whether the specific impairment provisions made These included the probability of default, the loss given default, and for individually assessed loans, the valuation of were reasonable.
We found no material exceptions.
and expected cashflows related to collateral held by theGroup.
We examined a sample of loans and advances which had not been identified by management as potentially impaired and On 1 January 2018, the Group transitioned to the new financial formed our own judgement as to whether that was appropriate instruments accounting standard IFRS 9, which replaced IAS through reviewing information such as the counterpartys 39.
The estimated transition impact is disclosed in the notes to payment history and performance of the business during the financial statements in accordance with IAS 8.
significant change relates to the provisions for impairment.
In order to meet the requirements of the new standard, We did not find identify any evidence of an event that had not significant changes have also been made to systems, been properly evaluated by management, or that would require processes and controls with effect from 1 January 2018. an impairment review to be performed.
Group and Company Modelled impairment We tested the completeness and accuracy of data from underlying systems used in the models including the bucketing of loans into delinquency bandings.
We also critically assessed and tested the key underlying assumptions used by management, and performed sensitivity analysis.
Based on the evidence obtained we found that the impairment model assumptions were reasonable.
In respect of the estimated impact of the adoption of IFRS 9, we understood and critically assessed classification and measurement decisions and the impairment models developed by the Group.
This included using our credit modelling specialists in our assessment of judgements and assumptions supporting the expected credit loss requirements of the standard.
We re-performed selected model calculations to confirm the model outputs and we assessed the reasonableness of forward looking information incorporated into the impairment calculations.
Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the methodologies and data used within the models were appropriate, and that the model assumptions and overlays to modelled outputs were reasonable.
82 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Recognition of revenue on loans to customers The Group recognises interest income using the effective We assessed and tested the design and operating effectiveness interest rate method which spreads interest and directly of the controls directly associated with the calculation and attributable cash flows, the most significant of which relate to reporting of interest income on loans to customers.
These loan arrangement fees and upfront costs of new lending, over controls included: the loans expected lives.
accurate input of loan data into core systems: appropriate authorisation of amendments to data: and The expected life assumptions utilise repayment profiles to determination and approval of the assumptions used in the represent how customers are expected to repay.
The Group effective interest rate calculations.
has limited historical experience to support these profiles and therefore management must apply judgement, in addition to We determined that these controls were designed, implemented any historical information available.
Group and Company We assessed managements effective interest rate calculations through stressing the assumptions applied and utilising internal benchmarks to evaluate the appropriateness of the key assumptions used.
Recognition of deferred tax asset in respect of trading tax losses The recognition of the deferred tax asset in respect of tax We reviewed the Groups business plans and forecasts and assessed the forecast results by challenging both the losses is permitted only to the extent that there is convincing evidence that there will be sufficient taxable profits in the underlying and economic assumptions, focusing on those directly impacting the projections of future taxable income.
future to utilise the tax losses carried forward.
These assumptions included loan and deposit growth, and forecast loan performance.
When considering the availability of future taxable profits, judgement is required when assessing projections of future We used our independent benchmarking data to compare taxable income, and the business plans and forecasts supporting these.
a number of the economic assumptions to external data sources where possible, and also assessed the accuracy of Group and Company previous forecasts.
We reviewed sensitivity analysis performed by management, looking at the impact on recovery of the asset under varying scenarios.
We performed procedures over the existence of the asset, including inspection of correspondence with HMRC and substantiating tax losses to corroborating evidence.
We concluded that managements judgements in respect of the deferred tax asset are supportable in the context of the information currently available How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls in place, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is composed of three operating entities: Metro Bank PLC, SME Invoice Finance Limited and SME Asset Finance Limited.
The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were determined by our risk assessment and other qualitative factors including history of misstatement through fraud or error.
We performed audit procedures over business components considered financially significant in the context of the Group full scope audit or in the context of individual primary statement account balances audit of specific account balances, using the materiality levels set out above.
We also performed other audit procedures including testing information technology general controls and controls over key outsourced functions related to financial reporting, to mitigate the risk of material misstatement.
83 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF METRO BANK PLC CONTINUED This approach gave us coverage of over 99% of the Groups total assets.
Audit coverage on account balances in the consolidated income statement ranges between 85% and 100%.
For the remaining balances within business components which were not individually financially significant, the risk of material misstatement was mitigated through audit procedures including testing of entity level controls, information technology general controls and group and component level analytical review procedures.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 1.9 million 2016: 2.0 million.
How we determined it 5% of average profit or loss before tax of 5% of average profit or loss before tax of the the last 5 years.
Rationale for benchmark applied Based on the benchmarks used in the Based on the benchmarks used in the Annual Report, profit or loss before tax is Annual Report, profit or loss before tax is a key measure used by the shareholders in a key measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group, assessing the performance of the company, and is a generally accepted auditing and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 92,000 Group audit 2016: 97,000 and 99,000 Company audit 2016: 107,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
or draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in However, because not all future events or conditions can be the financial statements about whether the directors predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
to going concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
84 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 47 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 37 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 48, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 56 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.. Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 47, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
85 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF METRO BANK PLC CONTINUED Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment We were appointed by the directors on 29 July 2009 to audit the financial statements of the Company for the first long accounting period ended 31 December 2010 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 8.5 years, covering the periods ended 31 December 2010 to 31 December 2017.
Darren L Meek Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 1 March 2018 86
