Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofAstraZeneca PLC Report on the audit of the Basis for opinion Audit procedures were performed centrally financialstatements We conducted our audit in accordance with over certain shared service functions for Opinion International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs transaction processing, IT and in relation to In our opinion: UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities various Group functions, including taxation, under ISAs UK are further described in the pensions, goodwill and intangible assets, AstraZeneca PLCs Group Financial Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the treasury and litigation matters, as well as Statements and Parent Company Financial financial statements section of our report.
Statements the financial statements give a Webelieve that the audit evidence we have Taken together, the components at which true and fair view of the state of the Groups obtained is sufficient and appropriate to audit work was performed accounted for and of the Parent Companys affairs as at provide a basis for our opinion.
71% of consolidated revenue and, for full 31December 2017 and of the Groups profit scope audits only, 52% of consolidated and cash flows for the year then ended: Independence profit before taxation.
the Group Financial Statements have been We remained independent of the Group in properly prepared in accordance with accordance with the ethical requirements Key audit matters IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: thatare relevant to our audit of the financial Revenue recognition rebates, the Parent Company Financial Statements statements in the UK, which includes the chargebacks and returns have been properly prepared in accordance FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed Carrying value of intangible assets with United Kingdom Generally Accepted public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our Externalisation and collaboration Accounting Practice United Kingdom other ethical responsibilities in accordance arrangements Accounting Standards, comprising FRS101 with these requirements.
Uncertain tax positions Reduced Disclosure Framework, and Litigation and contingent liabilities applicable law : and To the best of our knowledge and belief, we Impact of finance transformation and the financial statements have been prepared declare that non-audit services prohibited by other change programs in accordance with the requirements of the the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the to the Group or the Parent Company.
The scope of our audit Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the As part of designing our audit, we determined IAS Regulation.
Other than those disclosed in Note 30 to the materiality and assessed the risks of material financial statements, we have provided no misstatement in the financial statements.
We have audited the financial statements, non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Inparticular, we looked at where the directors included within the Annual Report and Form Company in the period from 1January 2017 made subjective judgements, for example in 20-F Information 2017, which comprise: the to31December 2017. respect of significant accounting estimates that Consolidated Statement of Financial Position involved making assumptions and considering as at 31 December 2017, the Consolidated Our audit approach overview future events that are inherently uncertain.
Statement of Comprehensive Income for Materiality Asin all of our audits we also addressed the theyear ended 31 December 2017, the Overall Group materiality: $160 million, risk of management override of internal controls, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows based on 5% of profit before taxation after including evaluating whether there was evidence for theyear ended 31 December 2017, the adding back i asset impairment charges of bias by the directors that represented a risk Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and ii fair value movements and discount of material misstatement due to fraud.
for the year ended 31 December 2017, the unwind on contingent consideration, as Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December disclosed in Notes 9 and 18 respectively.
We gained an understanding of the legal and 2017, the Company Statement of Changes in Overall Parent Company materiality: regulatory framework applicable to the Group Equity for the year ended 31 December 2017: $75 million, based on 1% of net assets.
and the industry in which it operates, and and the notes to the financial statements, considered the risk of acts by the Group which which include a description of the significant Audit scope were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, accounting policies.
We identified eleven reporting components including fraud.
We designed audit procedures which required a full scope audit of their to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk Our opinion is consistent with our reporting complete financial information, either of not detecting a material misstatement due to the Audit Committee.
due totheir size or risk characteristics.
to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting These components are AstraZeneca PLC, one resulting from error, as fraud may involve Separate opinion in relation AstraZeneca Treasury Limited as well as deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery toIFRSsasissued by the IASB operating units in the US, UK, Sweden, or intentional misrepresentations, or through As explained in the Group Accounting China, Japan, France, Germany, Russia collusion.
We designed audit procedures that Policies to the financial statements, the andBrazil.
focused on the risk of non-compliance related Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as We also identified a further six reporting to laws and regulations, particularly focussing adopted by the European Union, has also components which had one or more on defence of product, pricing and practices applied IFRSs as issued by the International individual balances that were considered litigation.
Our tests included discussions with Accounting Standards Board IASB.
significant to the Groups Financial in-house legal counsel, supplemented with Statements.
For these components our external legal counsel correspondence for In our opinion, the Group Financial Statements work was solely focussed on balances certain legal cases.
We also inspected have been properly prepared in accordance related to revenue, research & development underlying support and calculations and with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
expense or property, plant and equipment assessed and tested the design and operating as appropriate.
effectiveness of controls around this process.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Financial Statements 129 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of AstraZeneca PLC continued Key audit matters identified by the auditors, including those context of our audit of the financial statements Key audit matters are those matters that, in which had the greatest effect on: the overall as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, the auditors professional judgement, were of audit strategy: the allocation of resources and we do not provide a separate opinion on most significance in the audit of the financial inthe audit: and directing the efforts of the these matters.
This is not a complete list of all statements of the current period and include engagement team.
These matters, and any risks identified by our audit.
the most significant assessed risks of material comments we make on the results of our misstatement whether or not due to fraud procedures thereon, were addressed in the Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition rebates, chargebacks and returns We assessed and tested the design and operating effectiveness of the Groups Refer to page 103 Audit Committee Report, page 140 Accounting Policies controls over the completeness, assessment for recognition and measurement and page 145 Note 1 in the Group Financial Statements.
of rebates, chargebacks and returns and concluded that these operated effectively at year end.
In the US the Group sells to customers under various commercial and government mandated contracts and reimbursement arrangements that include rebates, We obtained managements calculations for accruals under applicable chargebacks and provide a right of return for certain products, of which the schemesand assessed the assumptions used by reference to the Groups most significant are Medicare Part D, Managed Care and Medicaid.
stated commercial policies, the terms of the applicable contracts, third party data related to patient enrolment in US government funded benefit schemes These arrangements lead to large deductions to gross sales in arriving at andhistorical levels of product returns.
revenue to recognise the obligations for the Group to provide customers with rebates, discounts, allowances and the right of return, for which We compared the assumptions to contracted prices, historical rebates, unsettled amounts are provided for.
discounts, allowances and returns levels where relevant and to current payment trends.
We focused on this area because rebate, discount, allowance and return arrangements are complex and establishing an appropriate accrual requires We also considered the historical accuracy of the Groups estimates in previous significant estimates by the directors.
The directors have determined an accrual years and any prior year true-ups.
We formed an independent expectation of of$2,606 million to be necessary at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: the largest elements of the accrual at 31December 2017 using third party data $3,285million.
where relevant and compared this expectation to the actual accrual recognised by the Group.
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material misstatements in the rebate, chargebacks or return accruals.
Carrying value of intangible assets Our work on intangible assets focussed on assets which were individually Refer to page 103 Audit Committee Report, page 140 Accounting Policies significant, had lower levels of headroom or where there have been concerns over assets in previous periods.
The Group has $26,188 million of intangible assets at 31 December 2017 31December 2016: $27,586 million, comprising significant product, marketing For these assets we obtained the Groups impairment analyses and tested the and distribution rights, licences and software development costs.
reasonableness of key assumptions including revenue growth or decline, the impact of probability of technical and regulatory success factors, the expected The carrying values of intangible assets are contingent on future cash flows loss of drug exclusivity and discount rates applied.
We challenged management andthere is a risk that the assets will be impaired if cash flows are not in line to substantiate its assumptions including comparing certain assumptions to withexpectations.
The projections in managements impairment models contain industry and economic forecasts.
We also verified the expected performance anumber of significant judgements and estimates including peak year and erosion of certain assets to the Board approved long range plan.
sales curves, probability of technical and regulatory success factors and discount rates.
Changes in these assumptions could lead to an impairment to the carrying We assessed the integrity of supporting calculations and used our valuation value of intangible assets.
specialists to help us assess the valuation methodology applied by management including the integrity of the underlying models.
As noted in Note 9, assets with minimal headroom are sensitive to relatively small changes in the assumptions.
We assessed managements sensitivity analysis and performed our own for significant assets where headroom was limited, focusing on what we consider to be reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions.
As a result of our work, we determined that the impairment charge of $491million recorded for intangible assets was appropriate.
For those intangible assets where management determined that only partial impairments were required, the assumptions made were corroborated with certain information including historical market trends and performance analogues of similar products already in the market.
We also evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of managements controls in assessing the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets.
We determined that the controls were designed and operating effectively.
We reviewed the disclosures made in the financial statements, including sensitivity analysis and the reasonably possible downsides.
We are satisfied that these disclosures are appropriate.
130 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Financial Statements Financial Statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Externalisation and collaboration arrangements For each material externalisation revenue transaction we reviewed the Refer to page 102 Audit Committee Report, page 140 Accounting Policies and underlying contract and managements accounting analysis to understand page 145 Note 1 in the Group Financial Statements.
both the formal terms of the agreement and its commercial substance.
The Group routinely enters into development and commercialisation arrangements We assessed whether components of the transaction were at fair value and and collaborations with pharmaceutical companies.
These include in-license and whether the rights transferred under the arrangement qualified for revenue out-licensing arrangements and other types of complex agreements.
The nature recognition having regard to the remaining performance obligations under the of these arrangements mean that the accounting is often inherently complex and arrangement.
Where there were ongoing performance obligations we assessed judgemental, unusual by definition and presents a higher level of risk.
whether an appropriate proportion of revenue had been deferred, including an appropriate margin for the work yet to be performed.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had recognised externalisation revenue of $2,313 million 31 December 2016: $1,683 million.
Where there was a related intangible asset we assessed whether an appropriate amount of that intangible asset has been derecognised on transfer of the relevant rights.
Based on the procedures performed, we consider management judgements reasonable and did not identify any material misstatements.
Uncertain tax positions With the assistance of our local and international tax specialists, we evaluated Refer to page 103 Audit Committee Report, page 141 Accounting Policies managements judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and andpage 188 Note 28 in the Group Financial Statements.
contingencies in order to assess the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and is subject In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, we considered to a range of tax risks during the normal course of business including transaction thestatus of recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries, judgemental related tax matters and transfer pricing arrangements.
positions taken in tax returns and current year estimates and developments in the tax environment.
Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the Group establishes provisions based on managements judgement of the probable amount of the future liability.
Where appropriate, we also read appropriate documentation to understand At 31December 2017, the Group has recorded provisions of $1,166 million in the positions reached.
We noted that the assumptions and judgements that respect of uncertain tax positions 31December 2016: $1,166 million.
are required to formulate the provisions mean that there is a broad range of possible outcomes.
However, from the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group Financial Statements taken as a whole.
We assessed and tested the design and operating effectiveness of the Groups controls over provisions for uncertain tax positions and concluded that these operated effectively.
Litigation and contingent liabilities We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls Refer to page 103 Audit Committee Report, page 143 Accounting Policies in respect of the determination of the provisions.
We determined that the and page 183 Note 28 in the Group Financial Statements.
operation of the controls provided us with evidence over the completeness, accuracy and valuation of the provisions.
The pharmaceuticals industry is heavily regulated which increases inherent litigation risk.
The Group is engaged in a number of legal actions, including patent We read the summary of litigation matters provided by management and held litigation, product liability, anti-trust and related litigation.
discussions with the Groups legal counsel.
We requested legal letters from some of the Groups external legal advisors with respect to the matters At 31 December 2017, the Group held provisions of $654 million in respect of included in the summary.
Where appropriate we examined correspondence legal claims 31 December 2016: $438 million.
These provisions are based on judgements and accounting estimates made by For litigation provisions, we tested the calculation of the provisions, assessed management in determining the likelihood and magnitude of claims.
Accordingly, the assumptions against third party data, where available, and assessed the unexpected adverse outcomes could significantly impact the Groups reported estimates against historical trends.
profit and balance sheet position.
We considered managements judgements on the level of provisioning to be appropriate.
We also evaluated the appropriateness of the disclosures in Note 19 and Note 28 which we considered appropriate.
Finance transformation and other change programmes We centrally managed the work performed by component audit teams at During the year the Groups finance transformation and related change in-house shared service centres.
We performed walkthrough procedures and programmes continued including the implementation of a new gross to net system, controls testing both pre and post transition to ensure the effective transition of Model N, in the US, the migration of certain management accounting functions to the processes to shared service centres.
We also conducted oversight visits to in-house shared service centres and decentralisation of payroll to local territories.
both in-house and third party shared service centre sites in Group audit scope Each of these changes poses a potential risk to the continued effective operation namely Poland and Malaysia.
of the financial reporting and control environment due to their impact on finance Component teams performed audit procedures around the payroll in people, processes and systems.
The transfer of data and operation of new systems needs to be carefully managed We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls during the transition period to ensure that the integrity and accuracy of data is around Model N and the centralised processing environment, including IT maintained and the new system operates as intended.
Similarly, the transfer of general controls and controls in respect of data migration between systems.
established processes to new locations operated by new people has required We also substantively tested the accuracy and completeness of data migration close management and control.
into the new systems along with the controls over this process.
During the year, a number of internal control weaknesses were identified related to Model N. These were remediated in-year with validation testing performed to ensure operational effectiveness.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Financial Statements 131 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of AstraZeneca PLC continued We determined that there were no key audit The Group operates in over 100 countries and The procedures performed above increased matters applicable to the Parent Company the size of operations within each territory the coverage of Group assets to 85%, the to communicate in our report.
We identified eleven reporting revenue coverage to 83% and the coverage components in scope for Group reporting.
of profit before tax increased to 70%.
How we tailored the audit scope These include AstraZeneca PLC, AstraZeneca We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure Treasury Limited as well as the US, UK, Sweden, In addition, audits for local statutory purposes that we performed enough work to be able China, Japan, France, Germany, Russia and were accelerated to coincide with the Group to give an opinion on the financial statements Brazil.
These alone represented 71% and 52% reporting timetable at a further three locations asa whole, taking into account the structure of the Groups revenue and absolute profit with significant findings reported to the Group of the Group and the Parent Company, the before tax.
We identified these eleven reporting engagement team.
accounting processes and controls, and the components as those that, in our view, required industry in which they operate.
an audit of their complete financial information, Materiality due to their size or risk characteristics.
The scope of our audit was influenced by In establishing the overall approach to the Group ourapplication of materiality.
We set certain audit, we determined the type of work that We also identified a further six reporting quantitative thresholds for materiality.
needed to be performed by us, as the Group components which had one or more These, together with qualitative considerations, engagement team, or component auditors individual balances that were considered helped us to determine the scope of our within PwC UK and other PwC network firms significant to the Groups Financial Statements.
audit and thenature, timing and extent of our operating under our instruction.
Where the For these components our work solely audit procedures on the individual financial work was performed by component auditors, focussed on balances related to revenue, statement line items and disclosures and we determined the level of involvement we research & development expense or property, in evaluating the effect of misstatements, needed to have in the audit work in these plant and equipment as appropriate.
both individually and in aggregate on the territories tobe able to conclude whether financial statements as a whole.
sufficient appropriate audit evidence had Audit procedures were performed centrally over been obtained as a basis for our opinion on certain shared service functions for transaction Based on our professional judgement, the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
processing, IT and in relation to various Group wedetermined materiality for the financial functions, including taxation, pensions, statements as a whole as follows: goodwill and intangible assets, treasury and litigation matters, as well as the consolidation.
Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Overall materiality $160 million $75 million How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, after adding back asset impairment charges, fair value 1% of net assets movements and interest on contingent consideration as disclosed in Notes 9 and 18.
Rationale for The reported profit of the Group can fluctuate due to asset impairment charges We have considered the nature of the business benchmarkapplied and fair value and interest movements on contingent consideration.
These in AstraZeneca PLC investing activities and have amounts are prone to year on year volatility and are not necessarily reflective of determine that net assets is most appropriate the operating performance of the Group and as such they have been excluded as a basis for the calculation of the overall from the benchmark amount.
For each component in the scope of our Group We agreed with the Audit Committee that we wellas misstatements below those amounts audit, we allocated a materiality that is less would report to them misstatements identified that, in our view, warranted reporting for than our overall Group materiality.
The range during our audit above $7 million Group audit qualitative reasons.
of materiality allocated across components and $7 million Parent Company audit as was between $10 million and $100 million.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report asfollows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of the directors We have nothing material to add or to draw statement in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going attention to.
However, because not all future events concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any or conditions can be predicted, this statement material uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern over is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to going concern in accordance with We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
132 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Financial Statements Financial Statements Reporting on other information The directors assessment of the prospects of The directors statement relating to The other information comprises all of the the Group and of the principal risks that would the Parent Companys compliance with information in the Annual Report other than threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group the Code does not properly disclose a the financial statements and our auditors We have nothing material to add or draw departure from a relevant provision of the report thereon.
The directors are responsible attention to regarding: Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for the other information.
Our opinion on forreview by the auditors.
thefinancial statements does not cover the The directors confirmation on page 63 of other information and, accordingly, we do the Annual Report that they have carried Directors Remuneration notexpress an audit opinion or, except to out a robust assessment of the principal In our opinion, the part of the Directors theextent otherwise explicitly stated in this risks facing the Group, including those Remuneration Report to be audited has report, any form of assurance thereon.
that would threaten its business model, beenproperly prepared in accordance future performance, solvency or liquidity.
In connection with our audit of the financial The disclosures in the Annual Report that statements, our responsibility is to read the describe those risks and explain how they Responsibilities for the financial other information and, in doing so, consider are being managed or mitigated.
statements and the audit whether the other information is materially The directors explanation on page 63 Responsibilities of the directors for inconsistent with the financial statements of the Annual Report as to how they have thefinancial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or assessed the prospects of the Group, over As explained more fully in the Preparation otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
what period they have done so and why ofthe Financial Statements and Directors If we identify an apparent material inconsistency they consider that period to be appropriate, Responsibilities set out on page 128, the or material misstatement, we are required and their statement as to whether they have directors are responsible for the preparation toperform procedures to conclude whether a reasonable expectation that the Group of the financial statements in accordance there is a material misstatement of the will be able to continue in operation and withthe applicable framework and for being financial statements or a material misstatement meet its liabilities as they fall due over the satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
If, based on the work period of their assessment, including any The directors are also responsible for such we have performed, we conclude that there is related disclosures drawing attention to any internal control as they determine is necessary a material misstatement of this other information, necessary qualifications or assumptions.
to enable the preparation of financial we are required to report that fact.
We have statements that are free from material nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
We have nothing to report having performed misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
areview of the directors statement that they With respect to the Strategic Report and have carried out a robust assessment of the In preparing the financial statements, the Directors Report, we also considered whether principal risks facing the Group and statement directors are responsible for assessing the the disclosures required by the UK Companies in relation to the longer-term viability of the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to Act 2006 have been included.
Our review was substantially less in continue as a going concern, disclosing as scope than an audit and only consisted of applicable, matters related to going concern Based on the responsibilities described making inquiries and considering the directors and using the going concern basis of aboveand our work undertaken in the process supporting their statements: checking accounting unless the directors either intend course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, that the statements are in alignment with to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the therelevant provisions of the UK Corporate or to cease operations, or have no realistic Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us Governance Code the Code : and considering alternative but to do so.
also to report certain opinions and matters as whether the statements are consistent described below required by ISAs UK unless with the knowledge and understanding of Auditors responsibilities for the audit of otherwise stated.
the Group and Parent Company and their thefinancial statements environment obtained in the course of the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable Strategic Report and Chairmans Statement audit.
assurance about whether the financial In our opinion, based on the work undertaken statements as a whole are free from material in the course of the audit, the information Other Code Provisions misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, given in the Strategic Report and Chairmans We have nothing to report in respect of our and to issue an auditors report that includes Statement for the year ended 31December responsibility to report when: our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high 2017 is consistent with the financial statements level of assurance, but is not a guarantee and has been prepared in accordance with The statement given by the directors, on thatan audit conducted in accordance applicable legal requirements CA06.
page 128, that they consider the Annual with ISAs UK will always detect a material Report taken as a whole to be fair, misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements In light of the knowledge and understanding balancedand understandable, and can arise from fraud or error and are considered ofthe Group and Parent Company and their provides the information necessary for the material if, individually or in the aggregate, they environment obtained in the course of members to assess the Groups and Parent could reasonably be expected to influence the audit, we did not identify any material Companys position and performance, the economic decisions of users taken on the misstatements in the Strategic Report and business model and strategy is materially basis of these financial statements.
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained A further description of our responsibilities for in thecourse of performing our audit.
the audit of the financial statements is located The section of the Annual Report on on the FRCs website at: www.
uk pages102104 describing the work of the .
This description AuditCommittee does not appropriately forms part of our auditors report.
addressmatters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Financial Statements 133 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of AstraZeneca PLC continued Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, ingiving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the shareholders on 27April 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
This is therefore our first year of uninterrupted engagement.
Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 2February 2018 134 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Financial Statements
