Independent Auditors Report Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and Independent auditors report to viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the the members of Foreign & Colonial annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to Investment Trust PLC you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: The disclosures in the annual report set out on page 16 that Opinion describe the principal risks and explain how they are being We have audited the financial statements of Foreign & Colonial managed or mitigated.
Investment Trust PLC the Company for the year ended 31 December The directors confirmation set out on page 16 in the annual 2017 which comprise the Income Statement, Statement of Changes in report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Equity, Balance Sheet, Statement of Cash Flows and the related Notes principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten on the Accounts 1 to 26.
The financial reporting framework that has its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom The directors statement set out on page 16 in the financial Accounting Standards including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the In our opinion, the financial statements: date of approval of the financial statements.
Give a true and fair view of the Companys affairs as at Whether the directors statement in relation to going concern 31 December 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended.
required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule Have been properly prepared in accordance with United 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the The directors explanation set out on page 17 in the annual Companies Act 2006. report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that Basis for opinion period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over under those standards are further described in the Auditors the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Section of our drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Overview of our audit approach financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard Key audit matters Valuation of unquoted investments and resulting impact as applied to public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other on the Income Statement ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Incomplete or inaccurate recognition of investment income Valuation and existence of the quoted investment portfolio We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Overall materiality of 36.7m which represents 1% of Materiality net assets at 31 December 2017.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in Key audit matters accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of companys members those matters we are required to state to them the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the other than the company and the companys members as a body, for overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
50 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT The Key Audit Matters discussed below are consistent with those identified in the Independent Auditors Report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Risk Our response to the risk Key observations Valuation of unquoted investments communicated to the and resulting impact on the Income Audit Committee Statement The Company holds investments in Private We obtained an understanding of the Companys and PE The results of Equity PE through funds or partnerships Managers processes and controls for the valuation of the our procedures which are managed by HarbourVest unquoted investments by performing walkthrough procedures and identified no material Partners LLC HarbourVest, Pantheon inspecting the PE Managers internal control reports.
misstatement in the Ventures UK LLP Pantheon and F&C valuation or existence We obtained an understanding of the governance structure and Investment Business Limited FCIB of the quoted protocols surrounding the valuation process from the Investment together the PE Managers.
For the year investment portfolio.
Trust Accounting team at FCIB.
This included the primary controls of ended 31 December 2017 the PE portfolio reconciling cash movements in monthly reported NAVs to underlying Based on the work totalled 226.7m 2016: 266.1m which notices of calls and distributions and bank statements, reading internal performed we have no represented 5.8% 2016: 7.7% of the control reports of the PE Managers and performing a reasonableness matters to report.
Companys total investment portfolio See analysis of variances between reported and audited NAVs.
We observed the oversight at Board level through reading minutes The Net Asset Value NAV of the PE funds and board packs from Audit Committee and Board meetings is based on estimates and unaudited NAV throughout the year.
The Investment Trust Accounting We held meetings with the PE Managers to discuss and challenge: team at FCIB apply various controls to the The annual performance of the funds in which the Company held an valuation process which are subject to investment at 31 December 2017. oversight by the Board.
Controls over the The reasons for the variances noted between estimated and actual valuation process include: the reconciliation NAVs for the year ended 31 December 2016. of cash movements to the NAV statements received, reading internal control reports from Whether, based on any recently available information there should be the PE Managers, reading audited financial any adjustments required to the estimated 31 December 2017 NAVs.
statements as well as the portfolio reports We compared the Companys valuation methodology to the for the underlying PE fund investments and requirements of United Kingdom Accounting Standards United performing a reasonableness analysis of Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS variances between prior years reported and 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and audited NAVs.
We focus on the valuation of unquoted We agreed the NAV of the PE funds per the Company to the investments because there is the risk estimated 31 December 2017 NAV statements which we received that inaccurate judgments made in the directly from the PE Managers.
assessment of fair value, could materially As the 31 December 2017 NAVs received were estimated NAVs misstate the value of the investment we considered the reasonableness of the fair value adjustments portfolio in the Balance Sheet, the made to the 30 September 2017 reported NAV by the PE unrealised gains or losses in the Income Managers, and challenged any unusual variances.
Statement and the NAV per share.
We recalculated the unrealised profits on the revaluation of For the unquoted investments, realised unquoted investments impacting the Income Statement.
profits are calculated as the difference For a sample of unquoted investments we confirmed the realised between distribution proceeds less return gains or losses to the notices received from the relevant PE Manager.
We recalculated investments in foreign currencies using third party Specifically in relation to our procedures on exchange rates to gain assurance over the reasonableness of management override, we considered the currency rates used.
risk that FCIB or the Board may influence We agreed the total committed capital directly to the Limited the unquoted investment valuations in order Partnership Agreements of the PE funds and the drawn-down to meet market expectations of the overall capital to independent confirmations received from the PE Managers.
To test for the risk of management override we tested a sample of manual journal entries posted in relation to unquoted investments during the year to relevant support.
Report and Accounts 2017 | 51 Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Incomplete or inaccurate recognition of Audit Committee investment income Investment income is received primarily We obtained an understanding of FCIBs processes and The results of in the form of dividends from UK controls for the recognition of investment income by performing our procedures and overseas investments in quoted walkthrough procedures and reading their internal control reports.
identified no issues companies, as well as distributions from with the accuracy We agreed all dividends declared for the ten highest dividend unquoted investments.
For the year ended or completeness of paying securities during the financial year and additionally for a 31 December 2017 investment income income receipts.
representative sample of securities from the income received totalled 77.9m 2016: 70.4m.
Special We concurred with the report to bank statements and to an external pricing source to dividends charged to income and capital accounting treatment verify occurrence and measurement.
for the year ended 31 December 2017 for special dividends totalled 3.8m 2016: 9.4m See notes 3 We agreed a sample of accrued dividends at the period end to and also the basis and 19. post year end bank statements and an external pricing source for of recognition of occurrence and measurement.
income from unquoted Distributions from Private Equity funds investments.
are recognised when the right to the We tested a sample of special dividends from the income received distribution is established.
report by agreeing these to an external source and testing their Based on the work recognition basis to ensure that they were appropriately allocated performed, we have no There is a risk of incomplete or inaccurate between revenue and capital within the Income Statement.
recognition of income through the failure to recognise proper income entitlements We agreed a sample of the distributions received from the or apply appropriate accounting treatment unquoted investments ledger to the notices received from the PE in particular relating to the categorisation Managers and to the bank statements to gain assurance over the of special dividends and journal entries occurrence, appropriate classification and measurement.
applied to the income account.
We tested for completeness of income by selecting a sample of Special dividends by their nature require holdings from the portfolio to verify that any dividends that they the exercise of judgment as to whether the had declared during the period were correctly recorded in the income receivable should be classified as income received report.
revenue or capital in accordance with the For a sample of securities sold during the year we verified that SORP and the subsequent implications for dividends declared after the sale date were not recognised as Section 1158 compliance.
For special dividends the Company Additionally we tested pre and post year-end bank statements for determines whether amounts should evidence of income receipts in line with our testing threshold to be credited to the revenue or capital ensure that these were recorded in the correct period.
columns of the Income Statement based on the underlying substance of For the samples we tested we recalculated income received from the transaction.
The revenue column of overseas investments to gain assurance over the measurement the Income Statement is the main driver and recognition of income in foreign currencies.
of the minimum dividend calculation.
To test for the risk of management override we tested a sample There is therefore a risk that an incorrect of manual journal entries posted to the income account and classification could potentially result in an corroborated their business purpose.
under distribution of income and put the Companys investment trust status at risk.
Specifically in relation to our procedures on management override, we consider the risk that inappropriate journal entries are applied to the income account resulting in a manipulation of the Companys revenue to support performance and dividend targets.
52 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Risk Our response to the risk Key observations communicated to the Valuation and existence of the quoted Audit Committee investment portfolio The Company holds a portfolio of quoted We obtained an understanding of FCIBs and the Administrators The results of our procedures investments both in the UK and Overseas.
processes and controls for the valuation of the quoted investments identified no material The quoted portfolio is managed by FCIB who by performing walkthrough procedures and reviewing FCIBs and misstatement in the in turn sub-delegate the role of investment the Administrators internal control reports.
valuation or existence management for a proportion of the portfolio We agreed all of the quoted investment holding prices to relevant of the quoted to T. Rowe Price International Ltd and Barrow, independent sources using a range of third party pricing vendors.
investment portfolio Hanley, Mewhinney and Strauss LLC together Based on the work the Sub-Managers for their experience in the We reviewed the stale pricing reports to assess the liquidity of performed we have no United States equities market.
The fair value of investments within the We recalculated the value of quoted investments in foreign portfolio is based on the quoted bid value currencies to verify the accuracy of the corresponding Sterling at the Balance sheet date.
small number of quoted funds which are We obtained an understanding of the Administrators, JP Morgan valued at NAV.
Europe Limited the Depositary and JP Morgan Chase the Quoted investments held at the yearCustodian processes and controls for asset recognition by end were valued at 3,699.9m 2016: inspecting their internal control reports.
We inspected the year end reconciliation of the Companys records There is a risk of incorrect valuation of the to those of the Custodian and corroborated any variances.
investment portfolio, including incorrect We obtained confirmation from the Custodian and Depositary application of exchange rate movements and of all securities held at the period end and agreed these to the assessment of stock liquidity which could Companys records.
result in the Balance Sheet and Income Statement being materially misstated.
The Directors are responsible for implementing systems and controls to ensure that the assets of the Company are not susceptible to misappropriation and other fraud or error.
Certificates of investment ownership are held by the Custodian and not directly by the Company.
There is a risk of assets being misappropriated and the ownership of investments being unsecured.
An overview of the scope of our audit Materiality Tailoring the scope The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation extent of our audit procedures.
of the company and effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the business environment when assessing the level of We determined materiality for the company to be 36.7m 2016: work to be performed.
We believe that net assets is the most appropriate measure as it is the primary measure that Our application of materiality investors use to assess the performance of the Company.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and in forming our audit opinion.
and made no changes to the basis of calculation from our original assessment at the planning stage.
Report and Accounts 2017 | 53 Performance materiality information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of The application of materiality at the individual account the other information where we conclude that those items meet the or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an following conditions: appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 36 the uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment and understandable and provides the information necessary for of the companys overall control environment, our judgment was shareholders to assess the companys performance, business that performance materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our planning model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge materiality, namely 27.5m 2016: 22.9m.
Audit Committee reporting set out on page 45 the Section Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately for the Company we also apply a separate, lower performance address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
materiality of 3.5m 2016: 3.3m for the revenue column of the Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Income Statement being 5% of the revenue return on ordinary Governance Code set out on page 13 the parts of the directors activities before taxation.
statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing Reporting threshold provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with An amount below which identified misstatements are Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a considered as being clearly trivial.
relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them Opinions on other matters prescribed by all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1.8m 2016: 1.5m, the Companies Act 2006 which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to qualitative grounds.
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
The information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are Other information prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and The other information comprises the information included in the The strategic report and directors reports have been prepared in annual report set out on pages 1 to 93 other than the financial accordance with applicable legal requirements statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this material misstatements in the strategic report or directors report.
report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, you if, in our opinion: consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent Adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such visited by us: or material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we The financial statements and the part of the Directors are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other the accounting records and returns: or information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are are not made: or required to report that fact.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of directors In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other out on page 49, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 54 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine investments and resulting impact on the Income Statement are is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are tailored to address this risk.
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Our procedures involved review of the reporting to the Directors with respect to the application of the documented policies and In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible procedures and review of the financial statements to ensure for assessing the companys ability to continue as a going concern, compliance with the reporting requirements of the Company.
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using We have reviewed that the Companys control environment the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either is adequate for the size and operating model of such a listed intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no investment company.
realistic alternative but to do so.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether at https: www.
This description the financial statements as a whole are free from material forms part of our auditors report.
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance Other matters we are required to address is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit We were appointed by the company on 26 April 2016 to audit the conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic renewals and reappointments is two years, covering the years decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered were not provided to the company and we remain independent of capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud the company in conducting the audit.
The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding Committee.
the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Julian Young Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Our approach was as follows: Statutory Auditor We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory London frameworks that are applicable to the company and determined 6 March 2018 that the most significant are the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Association of Notes: Investment Companies Statement of Recommended Practice 2017 and Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The maintenance and integrity of the Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust We understood how Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC is PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out complying with those frameworks through discussions with the by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that Audit Committee and Company Secretary in combination with a review of the Companys documented policies and procedures.
may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially We assessed the susceptibility of the Companys financial presented on the web site.
statements to material misstatement, including how fraud 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and might occur by considering the key risks impacting the financial dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in statements.
We identified a fraud and management override other jurisdictions.
risk relating to the journal entries applied to the income account including for the categorisation of special dividends.
We also identified the risk of management override with relation to journals used in the valuation of unquoted investments.
Our audit procedures stated above for Incomplete or inaccurate recognition of investment income and Valuation of unquoted Report and Accounts 2017 | 55
