3 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion on Financial Statements of Tullow Oilplc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31December 2017 and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Tullow Oil plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together the Group whichcomprise: the Group income statement: the Group statement of comprehensive income and expense: the Group and Parent Company balance sheets: the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity: the Group cash flow statement: the Group and Parent Company statements of accounting policies: the related notes 1 to 31 to the Group financial statements: and the related notes 1 to 7 to the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law andIFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and wehave fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
com 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: the carrying value of Exploration and Evaluation E&E assets: the carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment PP&E : and provision for onerous service contracts.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group in the current year was $50 million 2016: $44 million which represents approximately 2 per cent of net assets and approximately 4 per cent of Adjusted EBITDAX.
The Parent Company materiality that we used in the current year was $40 million 2016: $20 million which represents approximately 1 per cent of the Companys net assets.
Scoping The Group comprises three reporting units and the corporate business unit, all of which were included in our assessment of the risks of material misstatement.
Full scope audits were performed on those operations audited by the Group team and by the component teams in Ghana and Gabon.
Specified audit procedures were performed in all of the Groups other locations.
The materialities applied to components ranged from $25 million to $40 million 2016: $20 million to $30 million.
Significant changes There have been no significant changes to our approach to the audit, aside from our conclusion inourapproach that the going concern assumption was not a key audit matter for this years audit.
Following the completion of the Groups refinancing process in respect of its Reserves Based Lending facility in November 2017 we concluded that the going concern assumption was not a key audit matter for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing We have reviewed the directors statement on page 34 about whether they material to report, add or draw attention considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in to in respect of these matters.
preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they material to report, add or draw attention were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including to in respect of these matters.
the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 42 49 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 34 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on pages 48 49 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
110 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 3 Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
In the prior year, the going concern assumption was also included as a key audit matter.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Carrying value of exploration and evaluation E&E assets Key audit matter The carrying value of E&E assets as at 31 December 2017 is $1,933.4 million and the Group has description written off E&E expenditure totalling $143.4 million in the year then ended.
The assessment of the carrying value of E&E assets requires management to exercise judgement as described in the critical accounting judgements section of the Annual Report and Accounts on page 126.
Managements assessment requires consideration of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the Groups intention to proceed with a future work programme for a prospect or licence, the likelihood of licence renewal and the success of drilling and geological analysis to date.
We have pinpointed the key audit matter in this area to those E&E assets in the Groups portfolio which are at higher risk of future impairment in both Kenya and Ghana.
The costs capitalised in respect of Kenya constitute $1,058.2 million of the Groups E&E assets.
Please refer to note 10 on page 135 of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Audit Committee Report on page 67 for further information.
How the scope of our We evaluated managements assessment of E&E assets held on the balance sheet at audit responded to 31December 2017 with reference to the criteria of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation the key audit matter ofMineralResources and the Groups accounting policy see page 123.
Our work to assess the assets at higher risk of future impairment included, but was not limited to, the following audit procedures: participating in meetings with operational and finance staff in Kenya, Ghana and London to discuss Exploration and Appraisal activities: challenging management to provide confirmations of budget allocations, confirmations of the licence phase and ongoing appraisal activity: and challenging management to provide evidence in respect of the continuance or otherwise of appraisal activity, licence validity, the status of applications for licence extensions and managements expectations of approval, their consideration of the likelihood of recovery of the balance sheet value and conclusion on commerciality where relevant.
Key observations We are satisfied that the assets have been treated in accordance with the criteria of IFRS 6 and Tullows E&E accounting policy.
In some circumstances the costs of wells from exploration continue to be held on the balance sheet for a significant period of time while development plans are finalised and government consent is obtained, for example in Kenya.
Based on the audit evidence gathered, we are satisfied that the judgements made by management are reasonable.
com 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Carrying value of Property, Plant and Equipment PP&E Key audit matter In 2017 Tullow recognised an impairment charge of $539.1 million against the value of its description PP&Eassets, of which $535.5 million relates to the TEN asset.
Please refer to note 11 on page136 and theAudit Committee Report on page 67 for further details.
As described in the key sources of estimation uncertainty section of the Annual Report andAccounts on page 126, the assessment of the carrying value of PP&E assets requires management to compare it against the recoverable amount of the asset.
The calculation of the recoverable amount requires judgement in estimating future oil and gas prices, the applicable asset discount rate and the cost and production profiles of reserves estimates.
We have identified the TEN asset in Ghana as the Groups only field whose impairment assessment represents a key audit matter as a result of its material size and sensitivity to changes in underlying assumptions.
Given the assets importance to the Group in terms of future production and the judgemental nature of the determination of its recoverable amount, we also considered there to be a fraud risk that the assumptions applied to the valuation are inappropriate.
How the scope of our We examined managements assessment of impairment indicators, which concluded that continued audit responded to the volatility in the oil price during the year represented an indicator of impairment for the Groups oil key audit matter and gas assets.
The assumptions that underpin managements calculation of the recoverable amounts of the TEN asset are inherently judgemental.
Our audit work therefore assessed the reasonableness ofmanagements key assumptions when calculating its recoverable amount.
Specifically our work included, but was not limited to, the following procedures: benchmarking and analysis of oil price assumptions against forward curves and other marketdata: agreement of hydrocarbon production profiles and proven and probable reserves to third-party reserve reports: verification of estimated future costs by agreement to approved budgets and assessment of their appropriateness with reference to field production profiles, with involvement from Deloitte petroleum engineering experts: recalculation and benchmarking of discount rates applied, with involvement from Deloitte industry valuation specialists: and consideration of evidence of management bias in the assumptions selected and the application of professional scepticism to address the risk of fraud.
Key observations The assumptions made by management when determining the TEN assets recoverable amount fall within a reasonable range, although we note that the discount rate applied is towards the lower end of this range.
Overall, we are satisfied that the recoverability of the assets has been assessed in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Management has disclosed the impact of sensitivities of both the discount rate and commodity prices in the PP&E note on page 137.
112 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 3 Provision for onerous service contracts Key audit matter In 2016 the Group reduced its future work programmes in response to lower commodity prices description and certain legal restrictions, and in consequence a number of service contracts became onerous.
Judgement is required to estimate the appropriate level of provision required for the onerous element of the contracts and the ultimate outcome of the contract claims in line with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
The assumptions made include the estimated usage under the contract, the likelihood of cash outflows and the valuation of any liability arising, including consideration of any contract claims and disputes.
Contract provisions are included in the Groups disclosure of key sources of estimation uncertainty on page 127.
Please refer the Audit Committee Report on page 67 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
These provisions are included within $135 million of other provisions in note 22 on page 145, and disclosed within other contingent liabilities in note 27 on page 150.
How the scope of our We performed the following procedures to gain assurance that all claims have been identified and auditresponded to the to challenge whether, in line with IAS 37, management has appropriately recognised a provision keyaudit matter where the likelihood of a payment by the Group is probable, or a contingent liability where it is possible that the Group will make a payment: obtained an update on the latest claims from in-house legal counsel and reviewed the documentation and correspondence with counterparties and external legal counsel as applicable for each potentially material claim: challenged management to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of IAS 37 and assessed this on a case by case basis: and performed corroborative enquiries of senior management regarding any additional claims.
Key observations We are satisfied that the estimates made by management are reasonable based on the audit evidence gathered.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope ofour audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality Group: $50 million 2016: $44 million Parent Company: $40 million 2016: $20 million Basis for determining Group: Approximately 2 per cent of Group net assets, consistent with the prior year approach.
materiality Parent Company: Approximately 1 per cent of the Parent Companys net assets.
Rationale for the Group: We have determined materiality based on the net asset position of the Group, reflecting benchmark applied the long-term value of the Group in its portfolio of exploration and development assets and their associated reserves and resources.
We have determined that using a balance sheet metric, rather than a profit-based metric, will provide a more stable base for materiality.
However, for reference we note that materiality equates to approximately 4 per cent of the alternative performance measure Adjusted EBITDAX.
Management has presented a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDAX toloss from continuing activities on page 35 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Parent Company: We have determined materiality based on the net asset position of the Company as its principal activity is to hold investments in subsidiaries and external debt.
com 113 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Group materiality $50 million Component materiality range Net assets $25 million to $40 million $2,716 million Net assets Group materiality 3Audit Committee reporting threshold $2.5 million We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $2.5 million 2016:$2.2 million in respect of both the Group and Parent Company, as well as differences below that threshold that, in ourview, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that weidentified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit The Group comprises three reporting units and the corporate business unit, all of which were included in our assessment oftherisks of material misstatement.
Full scope audits were performed on those operations audited by the Group team and bythecomponent teams in Ghana and Gabon.
Specified audit procedures were performed at the Groups other locations.
Thematerialities applied to components ranged from $25 million to $40 million 2016: $20 million to $30 million.
The Group team took direct responsibility for the audit work in certain locations including the UK, Kenya and Uganda as well as theconsolidation process.
The Group team planned and oversaw the work performed by component auditors: the level of direct involvement varied by location and included, at a minimum, a review of the reports provided on the results of the work undertaken by the component audit teams.
In addition, the senior statutory auditor and senior members of his Group audit team visited Ghana and Gabon to direct and review the audit work performed by the component auditors.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
report in respect ofthese matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directorsstatement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UKCorporate Governance Code.
114 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 3 Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud orerror.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability tocontinue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis ofaccounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have norealistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance isahigh level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually orinthe aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
com 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: ofthese matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion ofthese matters.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the directors on 1 August 2002 to audit the financialstatements for the year ended 31 December 2002 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 16 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2002 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance withISAs UK.
Dean Cook MA FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 6 February 2018 116 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts
