108 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS UK REPORT AUDITORS REPORTS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING SARBANES-OXLEY ACT SECTION 404 The report set out below is provided in compliance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
KPMG LLP has also issued reports in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in the US, which will be included in the Annual Report on Form 20-F to befiled with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Those reports are unqualified and include opinions on the Group Financial Statements and onthe effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2017 Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404.
The Directors statement on internal control over financial reporting is set out on pages 7778.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OFSMITH& NEPHEW PLC ONLY OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Smith & Nephew Plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Group Income Statement, Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group Balance Sheet, Group Cash Flow Statement, Group Statement of Changes in Equity, Company Balance Sheet, Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes which include the accounting policies.
In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: The parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Additional opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the accounting policies set out in the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS as adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRS as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 9 April 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 3 financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
OVERVIEW Materiality: Group financial statements as a whole $42m 2016: $44m 4.8% 2016: 5.3% of group normalised profit before tax Coverage 87% 2016: 91% of group profit before tax Risks of material misstatement Recurring risks vs 2016 Recognition and measurement of provisions for uncertain tax provisions Liability provisioning for metal-on-metal hip products Advanced Wound Care, Bioactives and Devices revenue related rebates Excess and obsolescence E&O provision for Orthopaedics Inventory.
109 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS UK REPORT continued 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Recognition and measurement of provisions for uncertain tax provisions Riskvs 2016: Included in current tax payable $233 million: 2016: $231 million The risk Our response Uncertain outcome Our procedures included: The Group has extensive international operations and is Control operation: Testing the controls that Group has in place to identify and quantify its subject to complex local and international tax legislation uncertain tax exposures.
in the normal course of business.
Our taxation expertise: Using our international and local tax specialists to assess the Groups direct tax positions and to analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine provisions As a result of the complexities of tax rules on transfer based on our knowledge and experience of the application of the international and local pricing and other tax legislation, the provisioning for legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
uncertain direct tax positions is judgemental and Test of detail: Examining the calculations prepared by the Directors and agreeing assumptions requires the Directors to make estimates in relation to used to underlying data where possible.
With the help of our tax specialists, considering the judgements applied to each significant provision including the maximum potential exposure and the likelihood of a payment being required.
Inspecting correspondence with relevant tax authorities and assessing third party tax advice received to evaluate the conclusions drawn from the advice where relevant to the significant exposures faced by the Group.
Our results: From the evidence we obtained we found the level of provisioning in respect of uncertain direct tax positions to be acceptable.
Refer to page 75 Audit Committee Report and pages 114 and 127129 accounting policy and financial disclosures.
Liability provisioning for metal-on-metal hip products Riskvs 2016: $157 million: 2016: $163 million The risk Our response Subjective estimate Our procedures included: As disclosed in note 17 the Group holds a provision of Control operation: Testing the controls that Group has in place to identify and quantify its $157 million in respect of potential liabilities arising from uncertain legal provisions.
the ongoing exposure for metal-on-metal hip products.
Enquiry of lawyers: Inspection of correspondence with external counsel and formal confirmations from counsel of open cases.
The estimate for this provision requires the Directors Test of detail: Examining the calculations prepared by the Directors and agreeing assumptions to use a statistical model and make a number of key used to underlying data where possible.
assumptions which include the expected number of For the cases identified in external counsel confirmations that all these have been adequately claimants, projected value of each settlement and the considered by the Directors in making their judgement on any provisioning that may be required.
likely time period expected for the settlements.
Our actuary expertise: Using our actuarial specialists to challenge the critical assumptions used in statistical projections in determining the estimated liability by reference to historical data including settlement amounts.
Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the metal-on-metal hip provision.
Our results: The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the liability recognised to be acceptable.
Refer to page 74 Audit Committee Report and pages 114 and 148150 accounting policy and financial disclosures 110 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS UK REPORT continued Riskvs 2016 Advanced Wound Care, Bioactives and Devices revenue related rebates The risk Our response Subjective estimate Our procedures included: The Group has a variety of agreements with wholesalers Control operation: Evaluating controls that the Group has in place over the identification, and distributors whereby contractual rebates are due estimation and settlement of rebates.
to customers based on the actual quantity of goods Inspection of customer contracts: Inspecting underlying contractual terms and purchased over a defined period of time.
correspondence with customers for a selection of arrangements in place and considering whether the accounting policy had been applied appropriately to the terms of the rebate, The contractual arrangement for rebates can vary by discount and or returns.
customer, product type and jurisdiction.
Test of detail: Performing detailed testing on a sample basis of the largest rebates with particular attention to whether these adjustments were recognised in the correct period and the The amount of revenue recognised for products sold completeness and appropriateness of any rebates accrued at the year-end.
through these channels wholesale customers and Historical comparisons: Comparing provisions held in prior years to actual outcomes to assess distributors require the Directors to calculate estimates the accuracy by which the Directors were able to estimate these provisions.
for these contractual rebates which are deducted in arriving at revenue recorded in the period.
Our results: Due to the variations in complexity of these The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the rebates estimated to arrangements, we consider that there is a risk of error in be acceptable.
calculating the estimates of rebates that have yet to be agreed with the customer.
Refer to page 122 accounting policy and financial disclosures.
Excess and Obsolescence E&O provision for Orthopaedics Inventory Riskvs 2016: The risk Our response Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: In line with industry practice, the Group has high Control operation: Evaluating controls the Group has in place over the preparation, review levels of Orthopaedics Inventory located at customer and approval of E&O provision, as well as over the review of the Group wide inventory premises to be available for immediate use by surgeons.
Complete product sets include outsizes which are Methodology implementation: Comparing the calculation of E&O provision to the principles used less frequently.
Towards the end of a products outlined in the Group accounting policy.
life cycle, finished goods inventory levels may exceed Test of detail: Testing the accuracy of E&O provision calculation and assessing key underlying requirements, in particular as it relates to inventory used assumptions.
These include expected usage of inventory based on historical sales and other less frequently.
internal or external factors which may impact the demand for the product.
Corroborating key assumptions against source documents such as prior year audited information.
Historical sales of this inventory is often indicative of Inquiry of management: Performing inquiry of management to corroborate the Directors plans future usage, adjusted for changes in market demand, for launching new or discontinuing product lines.
technological advancements or other factors.
Historical comparisons: Comparing provisions held in prior years to actual inventory write-offs to assess the accuracy by which the Directors were able to forecast this E&O provision.
In calculating the provision for excess and obsolete Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of inventory E&O provision the Directors have to estimate E&O provision.
the utilisation of inventory on hand based on forecast production and sales.
Our results: The results of our testing were satisfactory and we considered the E&O provisions made to be acceptable.
Refer to page 74 Audit Committee Report and pages 114 and 137 accounting policy and financial disclosures.
111 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS UK REPORT continued Parent company financial statements: Recoverability of parent companys investment in subsidiaries Riskvs 2016: Investments $7,092 million: 2016: $5,322 million The risk Our response Low risk, high value Our procedures included: The carrying amount of the Companys investments in Test of details: Comparing a sample of the highest value investments representing 98% subsidiaries held at cost less impairment represents 2016: 97% of the total investment balance with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheets 94% 2016: 86% of the Companys total assets.
to identify whether their net assets, being an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether those subsidiaries have We do not consider the valuation of these investments historically been profit-making.
to be at a high risk of significant misstatement, or to be Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed by the subsidiary audit team on subject to a significant level of judgement.
However, that sample of those subsidiaries and considering the results of that work, on those subsidiaries due to their materiality in the context of the Company profits and net assets.
financial statements as a whole, this is considered to be the area which had the greatest effect on our overall Our results: audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning We found the Directors assessment of the carrying value of investments to be acceptable.
and completing our parent company audit.
Acquisition intangible assets Oasis, the main asset at risk of impairment in the acquisition intangibles portfolio, was impaired in previous years.
Whilst we continue to perform audit procedures over the valuation of remaining acquisition intangibles, these assets have continued to perform in line with expectations.
Therefore, we no longer consider the valuation of acquisition intangible assets as a key audit matter and, consequently, is not separately identified in our audit report this year.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at $42 million 2016: $44 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude acquisition related credit of $10 million, impairment charges of $10 million and a net credit for legal and other items of $13 million as disclosed in Note 2 of which it represents 4.8% 2016: 5.3%.
In addition to a net charge for legal and other items of $20 million, the normalisation adjustments in 2016 also included a gain on disposal of a business of $326 million, acquisition related costs of $9 million, impairment charges of $48 million and restructuring and rationalisation expenses of $62 million.
There was no disposal of business in 2017 and the restructuring programme was completed at the end of 2016.
We believe that pre-tax profit excluding these items provides us with a consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the users of the financial statements.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at $31 million 2016: $31 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of company total assets, of which it represents 0.4% 2016: 1%.
Group normalised profit Group materiality before tax $42m 2016 $44 million Group normalised profit before tax $866m $19m 2016 Group materiality $835 million Whole financial statements materiality $2m Range of materiality at 37 components $3m$19m : 2016 $2.2m 2016: $5m to $35m Misstatements reported to the Audit Committee We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding $2.0 million 2016: $2.2 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 110 2016: 145 reporting components, we subjected 24 2016: 46 to full scope audits for Group purposes and 13 2016: 13 to audits of specific account balances including revenue, receivables, inventory and taxation.
The latter were not individually financially significant enough to require a full scope audit for Group purposes, but did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed or were included in the scope of our Group reporting work in order to provide further coverage over the Groups results.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated.
The remaining 16% 2016: 21% of total Group revenue, 13% 2016: 9% of group profit before tax and 14% 2016: 13% of total Group assets is represented by 73 2016: 86 reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 2% 2016: 4% of any of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
For these residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
112 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS UK REPORT continued The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved component materialities, which ranged from $3 million to $19 million 2016: $5 million to$35 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 19 of the 37 components 2016: 40 of the 59 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed bythe Group team.
The Group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
The Group team visited 10 2016: 5 component locations in USA, China, France, Italy, Spain, UK, South Africa, Costa Rica, Switzerland and Germany 2016: USA, UK, Brazil, Germany and Switzerland to assess the audit risk and strategy.
Video and telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors and others that were not physically visited.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
Group revenue Group total assets Group profit before tax Full scope for group audit 13 14 16 purposes 2017 9 13 21 Audit of specic account 10 balances 2017 16 21 Full scope for group audit 84% 86% 87% purposes 2016 2016 2016 2016 17 25 79% 87% 91% Audit of specic account 30 71 62 59 56 balances 2016 81 Residual components 66 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 77 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 4849 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or 113 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS UK REPORT continued the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UKCorporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 107, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence as necessary.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of compliance with the Food and Drug Administration in the USA and the compliance of business practices with the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act recognising the regulated nature of the Groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management, testing the effectiveness of relevant entity level controls and inspection of relevant regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Stephen Oxley Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL 22 February 2018
