INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COATS GROUP PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Coats Group plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position: the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: the group related notes 1 to 37: the Company Balance Sheet: the Company Statement of Changes in Equity: the Company Cash Flow Statement: and the Company related notes 1 to 8.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
77 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COATS GROUP PLC CONTINUED Summary of our audit approach The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key audit matters Lower Passaic River Study Area litigation provision Material assumptions underlying retirement benefit obligations Impairment assessment of Brazil tangible assets Taxation provisions transfer pricing The key audit matters are the same as the prior year, except that the impairment risk excludes the risk of impairment of intangible assets which has reduced since the previous audit following the improved trading results and significant increase in the groups overall market capitalisation.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was $10 million which was determined on the basis of 7% of profit before tax.
Scoping Coats Group plc was subject to a full statutory audit by the group auditor.
Due to the widespread nature of the group, the audit is subject to scoping decisions on overseas components.
Our full-scope audit of components provided coverage of 76% of the groups revenue and 81% of the groups profit before tax from profit making components.
Significant In addition to the change in key audit matters as described above, in the current year materiality has been based on 7% of profit before tax.
In the prior year 8% of adjusted profit before tax has been used.
In the changes in our approach current year, the exceptional and acquisition related items were not considered significant and not adjusted for the purpose of determining materiality.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 21-25 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors' confirmation on page 23 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation 26 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
78 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COATS GROUP PLC CONTINUED Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Lower Passaic River Study litigation provision Along with other textile manufacturers, and chemical producers, the group is subject to ongoing litigation Key audit matter description proceedings by the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA in regard to environmental damage caused by historic operations of the group in the Lower Passaic River Study Area.
In March 2016, EPA issued a Record of Decision providing a basis for management to make a provision of $9 million, in respect of remediation costs net of insurance proceeds.
This is currently considered by management to be the best estimate of the future liability, given the information available.
Judgement is required to estimate what, if any, the groups share of the total remediation costs is likely to be.
Management identify provisions as a source of significant estimation uncertainty in notes 1, 24 and 28 of the financial statements and discuss the matter as a significant financial and reporting issue in the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 51.
How the scope We challenged managements assumptions including a review of evidence used in determining provisions for the Lower Passaic River Study Area litigation, both in terms of appropriateness of recognition and in terms of of our audit valuation.
We verified the material cash outflows relating to the utilisation of the legal provision and made responded to the enquiries of management to confirm whether any further correspondence had been received in connection key audit matter with this matter.
We considered the legal advice management had obtained in relation to litigation and directly challenged and discussed with key legal advisers.
Key observations We found that managements provision is within a range of reasonable estimates of the future liability and has properly taken into account the latest information available from their third party legal advisers.
Material assumptions underlying retirement benefit obligations Key audit matter The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined description employee benefits are the present values of the defined benefit obligations at the year end less the fair value of any associated assets.
The gross actuarial value of scheme liabilities of Coats Group plc at 31 December 2017 was $3,389 million, and a relatively small change in the assumptions used can result in a material difference in the net deficit recognised of $163 million.
Key assumptions involved in the determination of the present values of the defined benefit obligations include discount rates, beneficiary mortality and inflation rates.
Changes in any or all of these assumptions could materially change the employee benefit obligations recognised in the statement of financial position.
The carrying values of the Groups pension obligations as well as a sensitivity analysis relating to the Groups major defined benefit pension arrangements are included in note 10.
Management identify Pension and other employee benefit obligations as a source of significant estimation uncertainty in note 1 of the financial statements and discuss the matter as a significant financial and reporting issue in the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 57.
How the scope We worked with our own pension specialists to challenge the assumptions such as discount, inflation and of our audit mortality rates underlying managements calculation of the group defined benefit schemes.
We have compared these assumptions to industry benchmarks and prior year rates.
responded to the key audit matter We evaluated the competence of the experts that management engaged to calculate the defined benefit pension schemes, by confirming they are qualified and affiliated with the appropriate industry body: and we evaluated the sensitivity of the pension scheme liabilities to differences between our independent judgements and those made by management, both individually and in aggregate Key observations The key assumptions used in the calculation of the retirement benefit obligations were within the ranges expected by our pension specialists.
79 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COATS GROUP PLC CONTINUED Impairment assessment of Brazil tangible assets Key audit matter Management performed an assessment of whether any of the Groups tangible assets, which have a total description carrying value of $293 million, exhibited any indicators of impairment.
Management identified the challenging economic and trading conditions in Brazil as an indicator of potential impairment and performed a detailed impairment assessment of the assets allocated to this cash generating unit CGU that have a carrying value of $38 million.
Managements assessment of the recoverable value, with the involvement of a local real estate expert in Brazil, was based on a valuation of the underlying assets less any costs of disposal as the land held in central Sao Paulo that was acquired in 1907 has a fair value that is significantly higher than its carrying value and is a key consideration in determining the fair value of this CGU.
The determination of a reasonable range of valuations for the assets and any disposals costs involves estimation uncertainty.
Due to the significant level of judgement, we identified this key audit matter as a potential fraud risk area.
Management discuss the matter as a significant financial and reporting issue in the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 57.
How the scope We challenged managements valuation approach and assumptions to confirm that the asset values assumed of our audit were supportable and that the potential costs of disposal were appropriately assessed.
We had direct discussions with the external real estate expert in Brazil to confirm the range of values for the various responded to the key audit matter properties in Brazil, and evaluated the competence of the experts used.
We considered the historical property indices and considered potentially contradictory evidence and applied further sensitivities.
We concluded that the assumptions used were reasonable and had been determined and applied on a Key observations consistent basis.
No impairments were identified from the work performed.
Taxation provisions transfer pricing Key audit matter The Group evaluates uncertain tax items, which are subject to interpretation and agreement of the position with the local Tax Authorities and consequently agreement may not be reached for a number of years.
description We have identified a risk in respect of the provisions which have been made in relation to the interpretation of transfer pricing legislation and practices across the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Groups effective tax rate reconciliation is provided in note 9.
We reviewed the changes in effective tax rates in each significant jurisdiction and basis for these changes.
How the scope of our audit We worked with our tax specialists in key jurisdictions to evaluate and challenge the appropriateness of responded to the judgements and assumptions made by management with respect to their assessment and valuation of transfer key audit matter pricing tax risks, including a review of applicable third party evidence and correspondence with tax authorities to assess the adequacy of associated provision and disclosures.
Key observations We are satisfied that the provisions raised in respect of the groups potential transfer pricing taxation exposures are appropriate.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
80 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COATS GROUP PLC CONTINUED Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality $10 million 2016: $10 million $8.5 million Basis for 7% of profit before tax and equates to less than 1% of total assets.
Parent company materiality of $8.5 million represents determining In the prior year 8% of adjusted profit before tax has been used.
Adjusted profit materiality 0.9% of net assets.
This was determined as profit before tax excluding exceptional and acquisition related is capped at 85% of the items.
In the current year, the exceptional and acquisition related items did not group materiality.
have a significant impact on the materiality determined.
Rationale for We have determined materiality based on professional judgement, the The parent company is requirements of auditing standards and the financial measure most relevant to primarily an investment the benchmark the user of the financial statements.
holding company and net applied assets is considered the Profit before tax is a key measure used by Coats Group plc in reporting results most appropriate basis.
and is determined to be the most appropriate basis for determining materiality for a global manufacturer.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $0.5 million 2016: $0.5 million for the group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Coats Group plc was subject to a full statutory audit by the group auditor.
Due to the geographically widespread nature of the group, the audit is subject to scoping decisions on overseas components.
We identified 11 2016: 12 financially significant overseas components spread across five continents.
One of the overseas components is no longer significant to the group and our involvement in their audits is as follows: For all components the group auditor held planning calls, attended closing meetings and also reviewed the work of overseas component auditors, where considered necessary.
The senior members of the audit team and Senior Statutory Auditor follow a programme of planned site visits.
During 2017, the Senior Statutory Auditor visited Coats operations in Hong Kong, Vietnam, India and China and met with the component audit teams.
Senior members of the engagement team visited Coats North American operations.
The components were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the components identified above, excluding the parent company, was executed at levels of materiality which were lower than the group materiality and range from $0.2 million to $7.3 million 2016: $0.2 million to $8.5 million.
Our audit provided coverage of 87% of the Groups net assets 2016: 86%, 76% of the Groups revenue 2016: 70% and, 81% of the Groups profit before tax within the Groups profit making components 2016: 81%.
81 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COATS GROUP PLC CONTINUED Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
82 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COATS GROUP PLC CONTINUED Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, we were appointed by the Company on 17 June 2003 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2003 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 15 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2003 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Timothy Biggs FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 6 March 2018 83
