Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Moneysupermarket.
Our opinion is unmodified The risk Our response We have audited the Financial Statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated Revenue Data Capture Our procedures included: Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Company Balance Sheet and Company Statement of Changes recognition Revenue recognition is Control design and operation: Testing, with the assistance of our in Equity, including the accounting policies in note 2.
329.7 million: considered to be a significant own IT specialists, the design and operating effectiveness of the 2016: 316.4 audit risk because of the general IT control environments and application controls in the click In our opinion: million complexities involved in the recording system.
the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December recording of internet lead Reconciliation: Agreeing total revenue recognised to cash receipts 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Refer to page 50 generation click based revenue.
received in the year, with reference to the movement of trade the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Audit Committee receivables, accrued revenue and output VAT.
adopted by the European Union: Report, page 88 Subjective estimate the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS accounting policy Judgement is required to estimate Test of details: Testing, on a statistical sample basis, the reasonableness 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and and page 93 and unbilled revenue at the period of earned but not billed revenue at the year-end by agreeing the the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 99 financial end.
Revenue is recognised estimated revenue to post year end confirmatory evidence, including Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
predominately from internet lead invoices and cash receipts.
Assessing transparancy: Considering the adequacy of the Groups Basis for opinion Accrued revenue as at period end disclosures in respect of the judgement and estimates around We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities is recorded based on an revenue recognition.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit estimation of the likely number of Our results opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We found revenue recognition to be acceptable.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 22 April 2008.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 11 financial years ended 31 December 2017.
Prior to that we were also auditor to the Groups previous parent company, but which, being unlisted, was not a public-interest entity.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in Capitalisation Accounting treatment Our procedures included: and The criteria for capitalising accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit Control design: Testing the operating effectiveness of controls over services prohibited by that standard were provided.
recoverability of software and development costs purchase order and invoice authorisation of projects, to evidence the software and incurred include assessing appropriate level of approval over total project spend and expenditure development whether the costs are directly being capital in nature: Overview costs attributable to the development Accounting analysis: Comparing a statistical sample of costs capitalised 32.1 million: project and whether the Materiality: 4.8m 2016:4.4m to external invoices to assess whether costs have been appropriately 2016: 37.8 completion of the related asset is Group Financial Statements as a whole 5.0% 2016: 4.8% of Group profit before tax capitalised, by reference to the recognition criteria of the applicable million technically feasible.
The Directors accounting standards, including challenging the Groups assessment of apply judgement in this respect.
Coverage 100% 2016:100% of Group profit before tax the technical feasibility of the related assets based on discussions with Refer to page 50 Capital Project managers and inspecting Board approved business Audit Committee Forecast-based valuation Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 cases, submitted prior to the costs being incurred, outlining the Report, page 89 Software and development Recurring risks proposed features and expected completion dates: Revenue recognition accounting policy project costs are capitalised to and page 97, 98 the extent that future economic Our experience: Challenging the Groups assessment of impairment and 99 financial benefits are expected to be and impairment indicators depending on the project concerned using Capitalisation and recoverability of software and disclosures.
generated by the projects to our understanding of project progress, discussion at Board level and development costs which they relate.
This requires performance to date obtained from our other audit procedures: judgement as to whether Recoverability of Parent Companys investment Benchmarking assumptions: Critically assessing the reasonableness of sufficient profitability will be in subsidiary the assumptions including assessing the historical accuracy of the generated to recover the costs Directors forecasting and corroborating key inputs to internal capitalised.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement performance reporting and knowledge gained performing our other this assessment using a return on Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial audit procedures: and investment calculation.
The key Statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, inputs in that calculation, Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Groups including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the specifically revenue growth, disclosures in respect of the capitalisation and recoverability of software efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit ability to cross sell products and and development costs.
significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for timing and amount of capital Our results public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures expenditure, all require significant We found the capitalisation and recoverability of software and undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion estimation and judgement.
development costs to be acceptable.
thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.. Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC only continued 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern The risk Our response We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in note 2 to the Financial Statements Recoverability of Low risk, high value Our procedures included: on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group Parent The carrying amount of the Test of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of the investment with and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements: or Companys Parent Companys investment in the subsidiarys draft balance sheet to identify whether its net assets, the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 28 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
investment in subsidiary represents 60% 2016: audited as part of the Groups audit and being an approximation of its subsidiary 60% of the Companys total minimum recoverable amount, was in excess of its carrying amount and We have nothing to report in these respects.
Their recoverability is not assessing whether the subsidiary has historically been profit-making.
a high risk of significant Comparing valuations: Comparing the carrying amount of the 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report 181.7 million: misstatement or subject to investment to the Groups market capitalisation to assess whether there The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the Financial Statements.
However, are any indicators of investments impairment.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion million due to their materiality in the or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our results context of the Parent Company Refer to page 109 financial statements, this is We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the Parent Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our Financial Statements audit work, accounting policy considered to be the area that Companys investment in subsidiary to be acceptable.
the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on and page 111 had the greatest effect on our that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
financial overall Parent Company audit.
Strategic Report and Directors Report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the Directors Report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the Financial Statements: and 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Materiality for the Group Financial Statements as a whole was set at 4.8 million, determined with a reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of 96.1million, of which it represents 5.0% 2016: 4.8% of Group profit before tax.
Directors Remuneration Report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Materiality for the parent Company Financial Statements as a whole was set at 4 million, determined with a reference to a benchmark Companies Act 2006. of Parent Company total assets of 450.6 million, of which it represents 0.9% 2016: 1.3% of Parent Company total assets.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.24m, in addition to Based on the knowledge we acquired during our Financial Statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
in relation to: Of the Groups 6 2016: 6 reporting components, we subjected 6 2016: 6 to full scope audits for Group purposes, all of which, the Directors confirmation within the Directors Viability Statement on pages 27 to 28 that they have carried out a robust including audit of the Parent Company, was performed by the Group team.
assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: The components within the scope of our work accounted for 100% of the Groups revenue 2016: 100%, 100% of the Groups profit the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and before tax 2016: 100% and 100% 2016: 100% of the Groups total assets.
the Directors explanation in the Directors Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Group profit before tax Group materiality Group total Group Group profit assets revenue before tax 96.1m 4.8m Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
2016: 4.4m 2016: 91.3m Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: 4.8m 100% 100% 100% we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our Financial Statements audit and the Whole financial 2016 100% 2016 100% 2016 100% statements materiality directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 2016: 4.4m understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 4m Range of materiality Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016 We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven at 6 components provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
0.1m-4m 2016: 0.1m to 4m We have nothing to report in these respects.
0.24m Misstatements reported Group profit before tax to the Audit Committee 2016: 0.22m Group materiality Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 100% 100% 100% 2015 100% 2015 100% 2015 100% Full scope for Group audit purpose 2016 Full scope for Group audit purpose 2015
