Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MAN GROUP PLC Report on the audit SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH of the financial statements Key audit The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: matters Opinion Accounting for the acquisition of Aalto In our opinion: Impairment assessment of GLG and FRM acquired the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Man intangibles Group plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group Valuation of Numeric and Aalto contingent consideration payable affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year Accuracy of accrued performance fee revenues then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as with and any key audit matters which are the same as adopted by the European Union: the prior year identified with.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was $15m in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 2016: $15m which was determined on the basis of 5% of Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced a two-year average of the adjusted profit before tax.
Disclosure Framework: and Scoping We performed a full scope audit on 18 2016: 16 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the subsidiaries and audits of specified account balances within requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group a further 14 2016: 12 subsidiaries across seven 2016: financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Together, this accounts for 99% 2016: 98% of the We have audited the financial statements of the Parent Company and the Groups revenue and 98% 2016: 93% of the Groups Group which comprise: profit before tax.
the Group income statement: the Group statement of comprehensive income: the Group and Parent Company balance sheets: Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks the Group cash flow statement: and viability statement the Group and Parent Company statement of changes in equity: and Going concern the related Notes 1 to 29 for the Group and 1 to 7 for the Parent We have reviewed the directors statement in Note 1 to the financial Company.
statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been date of approval of the financial statements.
applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under to in respect of these matters.
those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to the directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not the disclosures on pages 33-35 that describe the principal risks and provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 32 that they have carried out a We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 31 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 99 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MAN GROUP PLC CONTINUED Key audit matters IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 10.
This year is the Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, fourth year the Group has adopted the requirements.
Based on our were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the procedures and assessments the Group has suitable processes, policies current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material and controls to implement the judgements required without significant risk misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of Revenue rebates and distribution cost accruals: 2016 was the first full year the engagement team.
that Man Groups new system for automating much of this process operated, resulting in improvements to the control environment.
Based on These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial our procedures and assessments the Group has implemented suitable statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not automation and controls, therefore there is no longer a significant risk of provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In the prior year, we included two key matters that we have not included in All of the key audit matters identified below have been considered as fraud the current year: risks when designing and performing our audit procedures.
Inappropriate judgement or estimation could result in fraudulent financial reporting.
Consolidation of the Groups investments in fund products: As discussed in Note 1, the accounting for the investments requires judgement in The description of this key matter should be read in conjunction with the determining whether control exists and hence whether investments are significant issues considered by the Audit & Risk Committee discussed on held on the balance sheet at fair value or are consolidated, as required by page 58.
ACCOUNTING FOR THE ACQUISITION OF AALTO Key audit matter On 1 January 2017, Man completed the acquisition of Aalto as detailed in Note 10.
Accounting for the acquisition requires significant judgement in determining and subsequently allocating the purchase price in accordance with description IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The purchase price of $78m is the aggregate of up-front cash, up-front shares and the present value of contingent consideration at the acquisition date.
Contingent payments require judgement in classification as either contingent consideration for the acquisition or remuneration for services.
The acquisition includes four deferred payments over eight years as detailed in Note 25.
The total amount of these payments has an estimated present value of $52m.
The present value has been classified as contingent consideration and included in the purchase price.
The purchase price allocation between net tangible liabilities acquired $ 1 m, identifiable intangible assets acquired $24m and goodwill $55m requires estimation.
The intangible assets valuation is dependent on estimated future cash flows, growth rates based upon managements view of the future business prospects and the associated discount rates.
A significant portion of the purchase price is allocated to goodwill 71%.
How the scope of our Our procedures included: audit responded to the Assessing related controls: We performed detailed walkthroughs of the recording and reporting of acquisitions, key audit matter assessing the design and implementation of key controls.
Working with specialists: We engaged internal valuation specialists to assist in challenging managements assumptions used to calculate the valuation of the intangible assets and the fair value of the contingent consideration at the acquisition date.
Our specialists assisted in evaluating the valuation techniques applied discounted cash flows, excess earnings, relief from royalty and replacement cost and challenging the reasonableness of valuation assumptions used including discount rates, growth rates and valuation multiples by comparing valuation inputs with relevant industry data.
Tests of detail: We performed a detailed review of the purchase agreement to assess whether all elements of the purchase price had been accounted for appropriately: we assessed the requirements of IFRS 3 business combinations to evaluate the classification of the contingent payments as consideration: and we challenged management on the valuation of acquired intangibles identified given the high percentage of the purchase price that was allocated to goodwill.
Key observations From the evidence we obtained we found the classification of contingent payments and the allocation of the purchase price to be appropriate.
100 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT OF GLG AND FRM ACQUIRED INTANGIBLES Key audit matter There are five cash generating units CGUs as detailed in note 10.
The valuation of goodwill and acquired intangibles for CGUs with lower levels of headroom is a key estimate as discussed in Note 1.
The previous years description performance of the GLG and FRM CGUs resulted in a reduction in the calculated value in use of these CGUs as at 31 December 2016, whereby all goodwill $319m and a significant portion of the acquired intangibles $60m was impaired with the full charge recognised in the Group income statement.
The carrying value of the acquired intangibles at 31 December 2017 for GLG and FRM is $231m 2016:$294m.
The impairment analysis performed by the Group requires estimation using the key assumptions detailed in Note 10.
Based on our professional judgement the use of reasonable assumptions for GLG and FRM is a key audit matter.
How the scope of our Our procedures included: audit responded to the Assessing related controls: We performed detailed walkthroughs of the impairment processes, assessing the key audit matter design and implementation of key controls.
We tested the operating effectiveness of governance controls over valuation models.
Working with specialists: We engaged internal valuation specialists to assist in challenging managements assumptions used to calculate the value in use of the CGUs.
Our specialists assisted in evaluating the reasonableness of the assumptions.
With the assistance of specialists, we performed a retrospective review of the accuracy of previous GLG and FRM forecasts.
We compared GLG and FRM forecast Funds Under Management FUM FUM flows, performance and margins to recent industry flows and performance, challenging the discount rate applied through discussions with management based on the results of our reviews.
Tests of detail: We performed an independent sensitivity analysis to determine the impact of reasonably foreseeable changes to the key assumptions used in the value in use calculations for the GLG and FRM CGUs, to determine whether such changes would trigger material impairments.
We held a series of discussions with key management across each of the CGUs and the Group who are outside of the finance function, as well as the Board of Man Group, comparing these discussions with the modelling for consistency.
We recalculated managements reconciliation of the total valuation of all CGUs to the market value of Man Group based upon the share price at year end.
Key observations From the evidence we obtained we found the key assumptions used to be appropriate and no impairment of acquired intangibles was required.
VALUATION OF NUMERIC AND AALTO CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION PAYABLE Key audit matter The contingent consideration payable to the former owners of Numeric and Aalto of $175m 2016: $150m and $60m respectively is stated at fair value, a key estimation as disclosed in note 1.
The key assumptions are largely description the same as those used in performing the impairment analyses discussed in the key matter above and are detailed in note 25.
These assumptions are applied to contractual terms of the acquisition agreements in modelling the fair value at the year-end.
Changes in the valuation of the contingent consideration are recognised in the Group income statement.
Based on our professional judgement the use of reasonable assumptions is a key audit matter.
How the scope of our Our procedures included: audit responded to the Assessing related controls: We performed detailed walkthroughs of the contingent consideration valuation key audit matter processes, assessing the design and implementation of key controls.
Working with specialists: We engaged internal valuation specialists to assist in challenging managements assumptions used to calculate the fair value.
Our specialists assisted in the same areas as discussed in the previous key audit matter above.
Tests of detail: We compared the key terms of the acquisition agreements to the valuation models.
We performed a retrospective review of the accuracy of previous forecasts where applicable.
We performed an independent sensitivity analysis to determine the impact of reasonably foreseeable changes to the key assumptions used in the fair value models, to determine whether such changes would result in material revaluation.
Key observations From the evidence we obtained, we found the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the Numeric and Aalto contingent consideration are within appropriate ranges.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 101 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MAN GROUP PLC CONTINUED ACCURACY OF ACCRUED PERFORMANCE FEE REVENUES Key audit matter In the prior year, we identified the accuracy and completeness of internally calculated management and performance fees and the consistency of calculations with governing documents as a key audit matter for description both management and performance fees.
In the current year we have refined this to the accuracy of accrued performance fees.
Management fees continue to be material and we perform significant audit procedures on the balance.
However, management fees are no longer assessed as a key audit matter since the calculation of most management fees was automated in 2017.
The accounting policy for performance fee revenues is detailed in note 2.
Performance fee estimates are manually calculated due to being complex calculations that are performed less frequently than management fee calculations.
Further, accrued estimates are prior to any invoicing controls.
The value of performance fees within Fee and other receivables Note 14 is $196m, a material amount.
The accrued fee requires accurate implementation of methodologies per governing documents, including any judgmental interpretations such as the treatment of client flows around the crystallisation dates or in-period flows within the calculations, and the use of estimated valuations as fee bases, which can change after the year end.
How the scope of our Our procedures included: audit responded to the Assessing related controls: We performed detailed walkthroughs of the performance fee estimation processes, key audit matter assessing the design and implementation of key controls.
We tested the operating effectiveness of the reconciliation controls over accrued performance fee estimates.
Tests of detail: We independently agreed a sample of calculations to governing documents and source documentation, verifying the calculation methodology and the accuracy of the inputs used in the calculation for example, fee rates, crystallisation dates, fund product profit and relevant benchmarks, challenging any judgements made when interpreting governing documents through discussions with management.
For estimates subsequently finalised and invoiced between the year end and the signing of the annual report, we assessed the amounts invoiced against the accrued estimate at the year end.
Key observations Based on our work, accrued performance fee revenues are not materially misstated.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Materiality $15m 2016: $15m $6m 2016: $9.49m Basis for determining 5% of the two-year average adjusted profit 3% of Total shareholders funds, capped at component materiality before tax PBT materiality Rationale for the Group financial statements: benchmark applied Adjusted PBT is a key alternative performance measure reconciled to statutory profit on page 148 of this annual report.
Adjusted PBT number is a relevant benchmark as it is a key figure used by analysts in assessing the performance of the business.
It is closely correlated with the Groups cash earnings.
We have determined that a profit-based benchmark is most appropriate for listed investment management companies and this is consistent with benchmarks used by Mans peers.
Performance fees are variable and can fluctuate significantly year on year.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, performance fees of $287m have been recorded in comparison to $81m in 2016.
As a result, we have taken an average of the current year and prior year adjusted profit before tax $384m and $205m respectively in order to create a more stable basis.
Our materiality is below 1% of the total equity of Man Group.
Parent Company financial statements: Total shareholders funds is generally considered as an appropriate benchmark for holding companies.
The Parent Company does not generate external income and its main purpose is to hold investments in the underlying subsidiaries of the Group.
We have also considered the year on year movement on this balance and deemed it to be a constant base, therefore this is a suitable benchmark to use.
As this yielded a materiality in excess of the component materiality, we applied the component materiality.
We perform a full scope audit of the Parent Company as part of our audit of the Group.
The materialities of components of the Group are determined with reference to each components contribution to Group PBT on an absolute basis.
102 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Materiality Pro t before tax PBT $384m Group materiality $15m Full scope audit 91% Component materiality Speci ed audit procedures 7% range $0.2m to $9.75m fide ned procedures 2% 98% Audit Committee reporting threshold $0.75m PBT Group Materiality Total assets We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $750k 2016: $750k for the Group and $300k 2016: $470k for the Parent Company, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on Full scope audit 92% qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit & Risk Committee on Speci ed audit procedures 6% disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall fide ned procedures 2% 98% presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit We perform our global scoping assessment on an individual entity by entity basis to determine the significant components or balances which may be subject to testing.
In doing so, we perform both a quantitative and qualitative assessment of all entities within the consolidated Group.
Our Revenue quantitative assessment is primarily based on each entitys PBT and revenue, however a further assessment is performed to determine whether sufficient coverage has been obtained.
Our qualitative assessment is based on our understanding of the entities obtained from prior years and current years events and any significant risks associated with each entity.
Full scope audit 92% Specific to our considerations is managements strategy for the Group and Speci ed audit procedures 7% we continue to re-assess where we focus our efforts as the business fide ned procedures 1% 99% continues to evolve.
Based on that assessment, which is consistent with the prior year, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at seven geographical locations.
This included the full audit of 18 2016: 16 subsidiaries across the UK, the US, Switzerland, Ireland, the Cayman Islands and the Channel Islands.
A further 14 2016: 12 subsidiaries Having now performed the audit of Man Group for four years, the Group across the UK, the US and Australia were subject to an audit of specified audit team has developed a programme of planned visits that has been account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of Group audit team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope Man Groups operations at those locations.
All other subsidiaries were is focused on a rotational basis.
During the current year visits were made subject to analytical review procedures.
to New York and Boston in addition to the UK.
Regular communications were also maintained with the remaining geographical locations.
Books These seven 2016: seven geographical locations represent the principal and records for subsidiaries located within Ireland, the Cayman Islands, business units and account for 98% 2016: 95% of Man Groups total Australia and the Channel Islands are maintained within the UK and are assets, 99% 2016: 98% of Man Groups revenue and 98% 2016: 93% of audited by the Group audit team.
the Groups profit before tax on an absolute basis.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to Other information address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our The directors are responsible for other information.
The other information assessment of the principal business units has been updated to include comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the GPM as a result of the Aalto acquisition in the current year.
Our audit work financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
at the 32 2016: 28 subsidiaries was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other materiality and ranged from $0.2m to $9.75m 2016: $7.3m to $14.6m.
information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our There has been no change in our approach to the testing at the Parent report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 103 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MAN GROUP PLC CONTINUED If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material Report on other legal and regulatory misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the requirements other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited required to report that fact.
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for we conclude that: the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the consistent with the financial statements: and directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the accordance with applicable legal requirements.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic audit committee does not appropriately address matters report or the directors report.
communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Matters on which we are required to report by exception Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the opinion: auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly we have not received all the information and explanations we require disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate for our audit: or Governance Code.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with Responsibilities of directors the accounting records and returns.
As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the Directors remuneration preparation of financial statements that are free from material Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for agreement with the accounting records and returns.
assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease Other matters operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk committee, we were Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements appointed by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2014 to audit the financial Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the statements for the year ending 31 December 2014 and subsequent financial financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes renewals and reappointments of the firm is four years, covering the years our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not ending 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2017. a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the audit committee aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part David Barnes of our auditors report.
Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Use of our report Statutory Auditor This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in London, United Kingdom accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our 28 February 2018 audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
104 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017
