INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAMMERSON PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Hammerson plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and company balance sheets as at 31 December 2017, the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow statement, and the consolidated and company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 74.0 million, based on 0.75% of the Groups total assets.
Specific Group materiality: 12.3 million, based on 5% of EPRA earnings.
Overall Company materiality: 84.0 million, based on 0.75% of the Companys total assets.
Materiality The UK and French components were subject to a full scope audit.
Together these components account for 77% of the Groups total assets.
The Irish and VIA Outlets components were subject to an audit over certain account balances including investment property.
The underlying financial information of Value Retail was subject to specified procedures over certain Audit scope account balances including investment property.
Valuation of investment property, either held directly or within joint ventures Group.
Accounting for the investment in Value Retail and valuation of investment property held by Key audit Value Retail Group.
matters Valuation of investments in subsidiary companies Company.
122 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 122 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HAMMERSON PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making Opinion assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
In our opinion: We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of Hammerson plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures to respond to the risk, the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We designed audit procedures that focused on the risk of non-compliance related to relevant laws and regulations including compliance with Real Estate Investment the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Trust requirements.
Our tests included testing of the Groups compliance with Real Estate Investment Trust requirements, discussions with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and internal legal counsel, inquiries with management, and the testing of particular classes of transactions and estimates including legal expenses the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial incurred in the year.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and company balance sheets as at represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
31 December 2017, the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow statement, and the consolidated and company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a Key audit matters description of the significant accounting policies.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of Basis for opinion the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Valuation of investment property, either held directly or within joint Given the inherent subjectivity involved in the valuation of investment Independence ventures.
properties, the need for deep market knowledge when determining the We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the most appropriate assumptions, and the technicalities of valuation Group UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities methodology, we engaged our internal valuation experts qualified Refer to page 87 Audit Committee Report, pages 148 to 154 in accordance with these requirements.
chartered surveyors to assist us in our audit of this matter.
Notes to the financial statements notes 11 and 12, page 136 Significant judgements and key estimates, and page 137 To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group Assessing the valuers expertise and objectivity Significant accounting policies.
We assessed the external valuers qualifications and expertise and read The Group directly owns, or owns via joint ventures or associates, a Other than those disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period their terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there portfolio of property which includes shopping centres, retail parks and from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have premium outlets.
The total value of this portfolio as at 31 December imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also considered fee 2017 was 10,560 million 2016: 9,971 million.
Of this portfolio Our audit approach arrangements between the external valuers and the Group, and other 4,686 million is held by subsidiaries 2016: 4,764 million and Overview engagements which might exist between the Group and the valuers.
4,211 million by joint ventures 2016: 3,792 million.
These properties We found no evidence to suggest that the objectivity of the external are spread across the UK, French, Irish and VIA Outlets components.
Overall Group materiality: 74.0 million, based on 0.75% of the Groups total assets.
valuers, in their performance of the valuations, was compromised.
The remainder of the portfolio is held within associates, primarily in Specific Group materiality: 12.3 million, based on 5% of EPRA earnings.
The Groups share of Value Retails investment Data provided to the valuers Overall Company materiality: 84.0 million, based on 0.75% of the Companys total assets.
The valuation of this We checked the accuracy of the underlying lease data and capital property is discussed within the subsequent key audit matter.
expenditure used by the external valuers in their valuation of the The UK and French components were subject to a full scope audit.
Together these components account This was identified as a key audit matter given the valuation of portfolio by tracing the data back to the relevant component for 77% of the Groups total assets.
the investment property portfolio is inherently subjective and accounting records and signed leases on a sample basis.
No exceptions complex due to, among other factors, the individual nature of each The Irish and VIA Outlets components were subject to an audit over certain account balances including were identified from this work.
property, its location, and the expected future rental streams for that investment property.
The underlying financial information of Value Retail was subject to specified procedures over certain Assumptions and estimates used by the valuers The valuation is carried out by external valuers, Cushman & Wakefield account balances including investment property.
We read the external valuation reports for all the properties and as defined in note 11, in accordance with the RICS Valuation confirmed that the valuation approach for each was in accordance with Professional Standards and the Group accounting policies which RICS standards and suitable for use in determining the final value for Valuation of investment property, either held directly or within joint ventures Group.
incorporate the requirements of International Accounting Standard the purpose of the financial statements.
Accounting for the investment in Value Retail and valuation of investment property held by 40, Investment Property.
We met with external valuers to discuss and challenge the valuation Value Retail Group.
The properties are held primarily at investment value reflecting the process, the key assumptions, and the rationale behind the more Valuation of investments in subsidiary companies Company.
fact that the properties are largely existing operational properties significant valuation movements during the year.
It was evident from currently generating rental income.
Shopping centres and retail our interaction with the external valuers, and from our review of the parks are primarily valued using the income capitalisation method, valuation reports, that close attention had been paid to each propertys and premium outlets are valued on a discounted cash flow individual characteristics at a granular, tenant by tenant level, as well DCF basis.
as considering the property specific factors such as the overall quality, geographic location and desirability of the asset as a whole.
COM 123 122 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 HAMMERSON.
COM 123 Independent Auditors report to the members of Hammerson plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of investment property, either held directly or within joint In addition we performed the following procedures for each type of ventures continued property.
We were able to obtain sufficient evidence to support the valuation and did not identify any material issues during our work.
Shopping centres and retail parks Shopping centres and retail parks In determining the valuation of a shopping centre or retail park the valuers take into account property specific information such as the For shopping centres and retail parks we obtained details of each current tenancy agreements and rental income.
They then apply property and set an expected range for yield and capital value judgemental assumptions such as yield and estimated rental value movement, determined by reference to published benchmarks and ERV, which are influenced by prevailing market yields and using our experience and knowledge of the market.
We compared comparable market transactions, to arrive at the final valuation.
Due to the yield and capital movement of each property with our expected the unique nature of each property, the judgemental assumptions to be range.
We also considered the reasonableness of other assumptions applied are determined having regard to the individual property that are not so readily comparable with published benchmarks, such characteristics at a granular, tenant by tenant level, as well as as ERV.
Where assumptions were outside the expected range or considering the qualities of the property as a whole.
otherwise appeared unusual we undertook further investigations and, when necessary, obtained corroborating evidence to support Premium outlets explanations received.
This enabled us to assess the property In determining the valuation of a premium outlet the valuers take into specific factors that have had an impact on value, including recent account property specific information such as the current tenancy comparable transactions where appropriate, and to conclude on the agreements, rental income generated by the asset, as well as property reasonableness of the assumptions utilised.
They then apply judgemental assumptions such as Premium outlets yield, discount rate, sales density and expected rental income growth For premium outlets we obtained details of each property, including rates, which are influenced by prevailing market yields and those acquired in the year.
We assessed the reasonableness of each comparable market transactions, to arrive at the final valuation.
Due to propertys key assumptions comparing its yield, discount rate, the unique nature of each property, the judgemental assumptions to be sales density and rental income growth rates to comparable market applied are determined having regard to the individual property benchmarks.
In doing so we had regard to property specific factors characteristics at a granular, unit by unit level, as well as considering and our knowledge of the market, including recent comparable the qualities of the property as a whole.
We obtained corroborating evidence to support explanations received from the valuers where appropriate.
Overall findings We found that the assumptions used by the valuers were predominantly consistent with our expectations and comparable benchmarking information for the asset type and that the assumptions applied appropriately reflected those available comparable market transactions.
Where assumptions did not fall within our expected range we were satisfied that variances were due to property specific factors such as new lettings at higher rents, increased average rents or capital improvements to the assets.
We concluded that the assumptions used in the valuations by the external valuers were supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence.
Investment property valuation Accounting for the investment in Value Retail and valuation of investment property held by Value Retail As Group auditors we formally instructed the component auditors of Value Retail to perform specified procedures over the underlying Group financial information of Value Retail.
These procedures included work Refer to pages 155 to 157 Notes to the financial statements note 13 over the valuation of investment property within Value Retail.
and page 136 Significant accounting policies.
The procedures performed were in line with those procedures The Group has an investment in Value Retail, a separate group owning described within the previous key audit matter surrounding the a number of premium outlet centres across the United Kingdom and remainder of the Groups premium outlet investment properties.
The Group equity accounts for its interest in Value Retail as an We have obtained reporting from the component auditors and have associate.
The Groups investment as at 31 December 2017 was reviewed the results and quality of their work over investment 1,069 million 2016: 959 million.
Investment property valuation In addition the Group audit team attended the meeting held between The valuation of the Groups investment in Value Retail is Cushman & Wakefield and the component auditors and reviewed the predominantly driven by the valuation of the property assets within component auditors working papers.
The value of this property was We have no issues to report and have obtained sufficient audit comfort 4,760 million as at 31 December 2017 2016: 4,096 million.
The over the investment property balances within the Value Retail Groups share of the Value Retail property, which is included within financial information.
the wider Group portfolio of 10,560 million 2016: 9,971 million, was 1,634 million 2016: 1,387 million.
124 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 124 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors report to the members of Hammerson plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for the investment in Value Retail Valuation of investment property, either held directly or within joint In addition we performed the following procedures for each type of Accounting for the investment in Value Retail and valuation of ventures continued property.
We were able to obtain sufficient evidence to support the investment property held by Value Retail continued In respect of the complexity within the calculation of the Groups valuation and did not identify any material issues during our work.
investment in Value Retail, we tested the adjustments made within the Shopping centres and retail parks The judgements and risks associated with the valuation of this Group consolidation in accordance with IAS 28 Investments in Shopping centres and retail parks portfolio are similar to those in the remainder of the Groups premium In determining the valuation of a shopping centre or retail park the associates and joint ventures in arriving at the Groups equity outlets portfolio discussed within the previous key audit matter, with valuers take into account property specific information such as the For shopping centres and retail parks we obtained details of each accounted investment in Value Retail, ensuring that equity accounting the properties also being valued by Cushman & Wakefield as defined current tenancy agreements and rental income.
They then apply property and set an expected range for yield and capital value was based on the appropriate percentage of the Groups interest in in note 11 on a DCF basis.
judgemental assumptions such as yield and estimated rental value movement, determined by reference to published benchmarks and each Value Retail entity.
ERV, which are influenced by prevailing market yields and using our experience and knowledge of the market.
We compared Accounting for the investment in Value Retail We have no issues to report in respect of this work.
comparable market transactions, to arrive at the final valuation.
Due to the yield and capital movement of each property with our expected Value Retail has a complex ownership structure whereby each the unique nature of each property, the judgemental assumptions to be range.
We also considered the reasonableness of other assumptions investing party owns differing proportions of each of the entities, and applied are determined having regard to the individual property that are not so readily comparable with published benchmarks, such hence properties, within the Value Retail group.
As such this creates characteristics at a granular, tenant by tenant level, as well as as ERV.
Where assumptions were outside the expected range or significant complexity in determining the overall investment in Value considering the qualities of the property as a whole.
otherwise appeared unusual we undertook further investigations Retail held within the Group consolidated financial statements.
and, when necessary, obtained corroborating evidence to support Premium outlets Therefore, on the basis of the significant judgement within the explanations received.
This enabled us to assess the property In determining the valuation of a premium outlet the valuers take into investment property valuation, and the complexity in determining specific factors that have had an impact on value, including recent account property specific information such as the current tenancy the overall investment in Value Retail, we identified this as a key comparable transactions where appropriate, and to conclude on the agreements, rental income generated by the asset, as well as property audit matter.
reasonableness of the assumptions utilised.
They then apply judgemental assumptions such as Premium outlets Valuation of investments in subsidiary companies We obtained the Directors valuation for the value of investments yield, discount rate, sales density and expected rental income growth in subsidiary companies as at 31 December 2017.
For premium outlets we obtained details of each property, including Company rates, which are influenced by prevailing market yields and those acquired in the year.
We assessed the reasonableness of each We assessed the accounting policy for investments to ensure it was Refer to page 171 Notes to the Company financial statements note C comparable market transactions, to arrive at the final valuation.
Due to propertys key assumptions comparing its yield, discount rate, compliant with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
and page 171 Accounting policies the unique nature of each property, the judgemental assumptions to be sales density and rental income growth rates to comparable market We verified that the methodology used by the Directors in arriving at The Company has investments in subsidiary companies of applied are determined having regard to the individual property benchmarks.
In doing so we had regard to property specific factors the fair value of each subsidiary was compliant with FRS 101 Reduced 4,897 million 2016: 4,824 million as at 31 December 2017. characteristics at a granular, unit by unit level, as well as considering and our knowledge of the market, including recent comparable Disclosure Framework.
The Companys accounting policy is to hold these investments at the qualities of the property as a whole.
We obtained corroborating We identified the key judgement within the valuation of investments fair value.
Given the inherent judgement and complexity in assessing evidence to support explanations received from the valuers in subsidiary companies to be the valuation of investment property their fair value, this was identified as a key audit matter for our audit where appropriate.
held by each subsidiary and their group undertakings.
For details of of the Company.
our procedures over investment property valuations please refer to the The primary determinant of the fair value of each subsidiary company Overall findings investment property key audit matter within this report.
is the value of its net assets.
The net assets of each subsidiary is We found that the assumptions used by the valuers were We have no matters to report in respect of this work.
principally made up of the underlying investment property held by predominantly consistent with our expectations and comparable each subsidiary and their group undertakings, the valuation of which benchmarking information for the asset type and that the assumptions represents the key judgement within the fair value assessment.
As such applied appropriately reflected those available comparable market it was over the valuation of investment property where we applied the transactions.
Where assumptions did not fall within our expected most focus and audit effort.
range we were satisfied that variances were due to property specific For further discussion around the valuation of investment property, factors such as new lettings at higher rents, increased average rents or please refer to the valuation of investment property key audit matter capital improvements to the assets.
We concluded that the within this report.
assumptions used in the valuations by the external valuers were supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence.
How we tailored the audit scope Investment property valuation Accounting for the investment in Value Retail and valuation of We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, investment property held by Value Retail As Group auditors we formally instructed the component auditors of taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
Value Retail to perform specified procedures over the underlying Group The Group owns and invests in a number of shopping centres, retail parks and premium outlets across the United Kingdom and Europe.
These are financial information of Value Retail.
These procedures included work Refer to pages 155 to 157 Notes to the financial statements note 13 held within a variety of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
over the valuation of investment property within Value Retail.
The procedures performed were in line with those procedures The Group has an investment in Value Retail, a separate group owning Based on our understanding of the Group we focused our audit work primarily on five components being: UK, France, Ireland, Value Retail and VIA Outlets.
described within the previous key audit matter surrounding the a number of premium outlet centres across the United Kingdom and The UK and French components were subject to a full scope audit given their financial significance to the Group.
Ireland and VIA Outlets were remainder of the Groups premium outlet investment properties.
The Group equity accounts for its interest in Value Retail as an subject to an audit over certain account balances including investment property, based on our assessment of risk and materiality of the Groups We have obtained reporting from the component auditors and have associate.
The Groups investment as at 31 December 2017 was operations at each component.
The underlying financial information of Value Retail was subject to specified procedures over certain account reviewed the results and quality of their work over investment 1,069 million 2016: 959 million.
balances including investment property, based on our assessment of risk and materiality of the Groups operations at this component.
Investment property valuation In addition the Group audit team attended the meeting held between The UK and French components account for 77% of the Groups total assets.
The valuation of the Groups investment in Value Retail is Cushman & Wakefield and the component auditors and reviewed the The UK and Irish components were audited by the Group team.
The French, VIA Outlets and Value Retail components were audited by component predominantly driven by the valuation of the property assets within component auditors working papers.
The over the investment property balances within the Value Retail Detailed instructions were sent to all component teams.
These instructions covered the significant areas that should be addressed by the component Groups share of the Value Retail property, which is included within financial information.
auditors which included the relevant risks of material misstatement and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit the wider Group portfolio of 10,560 million 2016: 9,971 million, team.
In addition, regular meetings were held with the component audit teams, with the Group audit team attending the clearance meeting for all was 1,634 million 2016: 1,387 million.
Finally the Group audit team performed a detailed review of the working papers of all component teams to ensure the work performed was appropriate.
COM 125 124 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 HAMMERSON.
COM 125 Independent Auditors report to the members of Hammerson plc continued These procedures, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level including audit procedures over consolidation adjustments, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
In respect of the audit of the Company, the Group audit team performed a full scope statutory audit.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 74.0 million.
How we determined it 0.75% of the Groups total assets.
0.75% of the Companys total assets.
Rationale for benchmark We determined materiality based on total assets Given the Hammerson plc entity is primarily a applied given the valuation of investment properties, whether holding company we determined total assets to be the held directly or through joint ventures and associates, appropriate benchmark.
is the key determinant of the Groups value.
This materiality was utilised in the audit of investing and financing activities.
How we determined it 5% of EPRA earnings.
Rationale for benchmark In arriving at this judgement we had regard to the Not applicable.
applied fact that EPRA earnings is a secondary financial indicator of the Group Refer to note 10 of the financial statements where the term is defined in full.
This materiality was utilised in the audit of operating activities.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 15 million and 70 million.
We audited the Company to 84.0 million being the statutory materiality with the exception of external debt, external interest, cash and equity related items which were audited to a lower component materiality for the purposes of the Group audit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 3.7 million Group audit and 4.2 million Company audit as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
In addition we agreed with the Audit Committee we would report to them misstatements identified during our Group audit above 0.6 million for misstatements related to operating items within the financial statements, as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of the We have nothing material to add or to Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors considered it draw attention to.
However, because not appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and all future events or conditions can be the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to predicted, this statement is not a continue as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the guarantee as to the Groups and financial statements.
Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in accordance with We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
126 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 126 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors report to the members of Hammerson plc continued These procedures, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level including audit procedures over consolidation adjustments, Reporting on other information gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, In respect of the audit of the Company, the Group audit team performed a full scope statutory audit.
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
Materiality In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
These, together with other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we statements as a whole.
have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 Group financial statements Company financial statements have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by How we determined it 0.75% of the Groups total assets.
ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Rationale for benchmark We determined materiality based on total assets Given the Hammerson plc entity is primarily a Strategic Report and Directors Report applied given the valuation of investment properties, whether holding company we determined total assets to be the In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for held directly or through joint ventures and associates, appropriate benchmark.
the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal is the key determinant of the Groups value.
CA06 This materiality was utilised in the audit of investing In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not and financing activities.
identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group How we determined it 5% of EPRA earnings.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: Rationale for benchmark In arriving at this judgement we had regard to the Not applicable.
The Directors confirmation on page 61 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the applied fact that EPRA earnings is a secondary financial Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
indicator of the Group Refer to note 10 The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
of the financial statements where the term is defined The Directors explanation on page 69 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have in full.
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the This materiality was utilised in the audit of operating Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related activities.
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an materiality allocated across components was between 15 million and 70 million.
audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements We audited the Company to 84.0 million being the statutory materiality with the exception of external debt, external interest, cash and equity are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
related items which were audited to a lower component materiality for the purposes of the Group audit.
Listing Rules We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 3.7 million Group audit and Other Code Provisions 4.2 million Company audit as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: In addition we agreed with the Audit Committee we would report to them misstatements identified during our Group audit above 0.6 million for The statement given by the Directors, on page 121, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and misstatements related to operating items within the financial statements, as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, reporting for qualitative reasons.
business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
Going concern The section of the Annual Report on page 84 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision Reporting obligation Outcome of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in respect of the We have nothing material to add or to Directors Remuneration Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors considered it draw attention to.
However, because not appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and all future events or conditions can be In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to predicted, this statement is not a 2006.
CA06 continue as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the guarantee as to the Groups and financial statements.
COM 127 126 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 HAMMERSON.
COM 127 Independent Auditors report to the members of Hammerson plc continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 25 April 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
This is therefore our first year of uninterrupted engagement.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 February 2018 128 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 128 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
