234 GSK Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc Report on the parent company financial statements Our Opinion Our audit approach In our opinion, GlaxoSmithKline plcs parent company financial Overview statements the financial statements : Materiality Overall materiality: 70 million 2016 70 million, based on 1% give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys of total assets capped at an allocation of Group materiality.
affairs at 31 December 2017: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Scope Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom The parent company is a single entity and operates in one location.
Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Areas of focus Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Vaccines contingent consideration liability.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the The scope of our audit Annual Report, which comprise: the Company balance sheet at 31 As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and December 2017: the Company statement of changes in equity for the assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made include a description of the significant accounting policies.
subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit & Risk considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework Basis for opinion applicable to the Company and the pharmaceutical industry in which We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Company which on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors designed audit procedures to respond to the risk, recognising that responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on Independence laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the the Company financial statements in the event of non-compliance ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, UK Listing statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as Rules and UK taxation legalisation.
Our tests included, but were not applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our limited to, the review of the financial statement disclosures to other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit with legal advisors, enquiries of management and review of Internal services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided Audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
to the Group or to the parent company.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described Other than those disclosed in Note 8 to the Group financial above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group regulations is from the events and transactions reected in the and to its subsidiaries in the period from 1 January 2017 to financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
235 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Report on the parent company financial statements continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries We evaluated managements assumption whether any indicators of Refer to Note F in the parent company financial statements impairment existed by comparing the net assets of the subsidiaries at 31 December 2017 with the parent companys investment carrying The parent company holds fixed asset investments comprising values.
investments in subsidiaries of 20,275 million at 31 December 2017 2016 20,236 million.
For those investments where the net assets were lower than the carrying values, we considered their recoverable value by reference to Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less the Groups market capitalisation at 31 December 2017 and the impairment in the Company balance sheet at 31 December 2017. valuations implied by other models, including valuation models prepared Investments are tested for impairment if impairment indicators for the acquisition-related liabilities and for goodwill impairment review exist.
If such indicators exist, the recoverable amounts of the purposes, all of which were subject to audit procedures as part of our investments in subsidiaries are estimated in order to determine the Group audit.
extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Any such impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
As a result of our work, we agreed with management that the carrying values of the investments held by the parent company are supportable Management judgement is required in the area of impairment in the context of the parent company financial statements taken as a testing, particularly in determining whether any impairment triggers whole.
have arisen that trigger the need for an impairment review and in assessing whether the carrying value of an asset can be supported by the recoverable amount which is determined by reference to the Groups market capitalisation and the valuations implied by other acquisition-related liabilities.
Vaccines contingent consideration liability We deployed our valuation specialists to consider the reasonableness Refer to Note H and J in the parent company financial of managements assumptions including growth projections and statements.
probability of success as well as the integrity and accuracy of managements model.
We compared sales forecasts to independent On acquisition of the Vaccines business from Novartis in 2015, market analysis and to board approved long range forecasts.
We also the parent company recognised a contingent consideration liability verified that the projections are consistent with those used in other which represents certain future milestone and royalty payments.
estimates, including intangible asset impairment models.
The liability includes milestone payments for acquired products reaching set revenue and development targets.
We considered the appropriateness of managements judgements about the probability of achieving the milestones in relation to The liability is required to be re-measured to its fair value at each development progress and quantified how sensitive the liability is to reporting date based on latest forecast and expectations of the different assumptions around the probability of success.
Where the probability of successful product launches.
The value of the liability probability of success changed in 2017, we verified that this was driven at 31 December 2017 was 584 million 2016 545 million.
by a comparative change in the stage of development of the vaccine.
The carrying value of the liability is based on assumptions such as The liability is subject to significant estimation uncertainty.
However, forecast cash ows, discount rates, taxation rates and the based on our procedures performed, we are comfortable that the value probability of certain vaccines achieving development milestones.
of the liability at 31 December 2017 is reasonable in the context of the parent company financial statements taken as a whole and reects managements best estimate at this time.
We reviewed the disclosures about the liability included in the Group financial statements.
We are satisfied that these disclosures are appropriate.
236 GSK Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc continued Report on the parent company financial statements continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the parent company, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which it operates.
Materiality The scope of our audit was inuenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 70 million 2016 70 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets capped at an allocation of Group materiality.
Rationale for benchmark applied The parent company holds the Groups investments and is not in itself profit-oriented.
The strength of the balance sheet is the key measure of financial health that is important to shareholders since the primary concern for the parent company is the payment of dividends.
Using a benchmark of total assets is therefore most appropriate.
This has been capped at 70 million following an allocation of Group audit materiality since the parent company is a component for the Group audit.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to it misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million 2016 10 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this financial statements about whether the directors considered it statement is not a guarantee as to the parent Companys ability to appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in continue as a going concern.
preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
going concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
237 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our of the principal risks facing the parent company and statement in opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other relation to the longer-term viability of the parent company.
Our review information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting of assurance thereon.
their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, the knowledge and understanding of the parent company and its consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an Other Code provisions apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a when: material misstatement of the financial statements or a material The statement given by the directors, on page 104, that they misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this and understandable, and provides the information necessary for other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have the members to assess the parent companys position and nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
performance, business model and strategy is materially With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also inconsistent with our knowledge of the parent company obtained considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies in the course of performing our audit: Act 2006 have been included.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 99 to 106 describing Based on the responsibilities described above and our work the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, address matters communicated by us to the Audit Risk CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Committee: and Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters The directors statement relating to the parent companys as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure Strategic Report and Directors Report from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the Rules, for review by the auditors.
audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the parent company and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the parent company We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 105 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the parent company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: and The directors explanation on page 57 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the parent company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the parent company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
238 GSK Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements Use of this report As explained more fully in the directors statement of responsibilities This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for set out on page 233, the directors are responsible for the preparation the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to by our prior consent in writing.
Companies Act 2006 exception reporting In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in assessing the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, our opinion: disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using we have not received all the information and explanations we the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either require for our audit: or intend to liquidate the parent company or to cease operations or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements from branches not visited by us: or Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, not made: or whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of the financial statements and the part of the Directors assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement accounting records and returns.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inuence the economic decisions of users Appointment taken on the basis of these financial statements.
We have audited the financial statements of the parent company since the year ended 31 December 2000 following the parent companys A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial inception.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 18 years, statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
uk covering the years ended 31 December 2000 to 31 December 2017. .
This description forms part of our auditors The year ended 31 December 2017 is our final year of engagement report.
following the Companys decision to rotate the external audit.
Other matters We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The parent company has passed a resolution in accordance with section 506 of the Companies Act that the senior statutory auditors name should not be stated.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 12 March 2018
