STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HUNTING PLC Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion, Hunting PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups loss and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2017: the Consolidated Income Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Cash Flows, and the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 7 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our Audit Approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: $5.0 million 2016: $5.0 million, based on 5% of five year average absolute profit or loss before tax from continuing operations adjusted, for the impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets Overall Company materiality: $7.1 million 2016: $6.8 million, based on 1% of net assets Audit scope We conducted audit work in seven countries covering 23 reporting units and visited a number of audit locations, including one financially significant component, Hunting Titan Components where we performed audit work accounted for approximately 93% of Group revenues and over 82% of Group absolute adjusted profit or loss before tax from continuing operations Key audit matters Goodwill and non-current asset impairment assessment Group Inventory valuation Group Direct tax exposures and recognition of deferred tax assets Group HUNTING PLC 93 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HUNTING PLC CONTINUED The Scope of Our Audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, Companies Act 2006.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondences with legal advisers, enquiries of management, review of significant component auditors work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
HUNTING PLC 94 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill and Non-current Asset Impairment We tested managements identification of the CGUs, considering business Assessment Group changes that would prompt a change to the classification of the CGUs.
Refer to page 67 Audit Committee Report, Note 36 principal accounting policies and Notes 13, 14 and 15.
In order to test the impairment models, we challenged whether the future cash flow forecasts and the timing of the forecast recovery in performance of these The Group holds $230.3 million of goodwill on the forecasts for the identified CGUs were appropriate.
balance sheet which is tested at least annually for impairment.
Additional intangible assets held by the More specifically, we challenged the key assumptions as follows: Group, including customer relationships, unpatented Forecast revenue and margin growth rate assumptions by comparing technology and patents & trademarks, total them to historical results, comparing the short and medium-term $125.4 million and the Group has property, plant growth rates to independent specialist third-party published reports and and equipment of $383.3 million.
Other non-current considering the impact already observed within the market: assets are tested for impairment if impairment triggers Terminal growth rates by comparing them to economic and industry are identified.
forecasts: and Discount rates by comparing the cost of capital assumption for each Determining the recoverable amount of non-current CGU against comparable organisations and our independently calculated assets for impairment purposes is a judgemental and discount rates.
complex area as it depends on the future financial performance of each cash-generating unit CGU and We found the above assumptions to be in line with our expectations and that future market performance.
While there have been management has followed a clear process for drawing up the future cash flow signs of improvement in the oil and gas market in 2017, forecasts, which was subject to oversight and challenge by the Directors and there still remains uncertainty as to the timing of a full which was consistent with Board approved budgets and mid-term forecasts.
As such, the key area of focus is the carrying value of the assets, with our focus In respect of all CGUs, we sensitised each key driver of the cash flow on judgemental areas being forecast revenue forecasts, including the underlying assumptions listed above, by determining and margin growth rates, terminal growth rates and what we considered to be a reasonably possible change in the assumptions, discount rates.
based on current market data and historical and current business performance.
In addition we calculated the degree to which the key Managements calculated recoverable amounts assumptions would need to change before an impairment was triggered.
exceed the carrying value of all CGUs.
As a result, there have been no impairment charges recognised Having satisfied ourselves on the key assumptions and sensitivities, we in the current year, with the exception of PPE in South assessed the likelihood of movements in key assumptions required to trigger Africa as discussed below.
Two CGUs remain sensitive an impairment and by comparison to sensitised forecasts and possible to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions changes in discount rates and concluded that it was unlikely.
and, as such, sensitivity analysis has been included in note 13.
In respect of South Africa, we considered the impairment indicators and assessed the charge recorded by management and note that the remaining Management identified several impairment indicators balance of PPE is supported by third-party valuations.
in respect of the PPE held in South Africa totalling $14.0m, in response to the Boards decision in December 2017 to close its manufacturing facility in Cape Town.
As a result, an impairment charge of $7.6m has been recorded against PPE.
HUNTING PLC 95 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HUNTING PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Inventory Valuation Group For all categories of inventory, we have critically reviewed the basis for Refer to page 68 Audit Committee Report, Note 36 inventory provision recorded to reduce the carrying value of inventory below principal accounting policies and Note 19. cost, the consistency of provisioning in line with Groups accounting policy and the rationale for the recording of provisions.
The Group holds inventory of $314.8 million offset by provisions for losses of $28.6 million.
Given the We assessed the nature of the Groups inventory and the durability thereof three-year downturn in the market and the impact this through discussion with management, physical inspection of inventory and has had on the Groups revenue and profits, pricing review of the utilisation of aged inventory products.
We agreed with pressure has increased the risk of inventory being management that the evidence obtained demonstrated that the nature of the carried at an amount greater than its net realisable Groups inventory is not perishable and the risk of technical obsolescence by value.
Consideration as to inventory obsolescence age is low.
Specifically, we have: is required as a result of the downturn in the oil and Considered the available support, including current sales transactions, gas market.
used to determine an appropriate net realisable value: Understood the ageing profile of the Groups inventory and Key to these judgements is managements expectations managements assessment for obsolescence: and for future sales and inventory utilisation plans and the Confirmed that where cost of inventory is higher than its net realisable implications on the level of provisioning.
value, an appropriate provision has been made.
From the procedures performed, we obtained evidence that the inventory was not carried at amounts higher than net realisable value and concluded that it was unlikely that additional inventory provisions were required.
Direct Tax Exposures and Recognition of We discussed potential direct tax exposures with senior Group management, Deferred Tax Assets Group and the basis for their positions with the Groups in-house tax specialists.
Refer to page 68 Audit Committee Report, Note 36 principal accounting policies and Notes 10 and 18.
We evaluated the calculations of the provisions, and considered: The accuracy of the calculations and ensured that appropriate tax rates The Group operates in a number of different countries have been used: and and is therefore subject to many tax regimes around Key judgements made by management in determining the probability of the world.
Provisions are estimated for uncertain tax potential outcomes.
positions and disputes with tax authorities, including transactions between Group companies.
Our evaluation of these judgements included using our tax specialists, in particular in the UK and US, with experience in the oilfield services industry as In addition, following taxable losses incurred in the well as our experience of similar challenges elsewhere.
current and prior years, estimates are required in relation to timing of recognition and subsequent We evaluated the timing of the recognition and the valuation of deferred tax recoverability of deferred tax assets arising from such assets in relation to tax losses and considered: losses.
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets The accuracy of the calculations of total deferred tax assets available and of $4.2 million, with related unrecognised deferred tax ensured that appropriate tax rates have been used: assets of $39.8 million.
Key judgements made by management in determining the probability of future forecast taxable profits to utilise brought forward tax losses, Management has not recognised such deferred tax consistent with the cash flow forecasts used for impairment assessments: assets as the realisation of the tax benefit is not yet and considered probable.
This includes $37.1m in respect Assessed the basis on which deferred tax assets have been recognised of trading losses, of which $24.9m relates to the US, by comparison to forecast taxable profits.
which have an expiry date of 2036.
The balance of trading losses have no expiry date.
Through these procedures we evaluated the level of the provisions recognised, the recognition and non-recognition of deferred tax assets and the We considered this an area of focus because of the disclosures included in the financial statements, which we consider to be in judgement required by management to assess matters line with the Groups policies and relevant accounting standards.
across multiple jurisdictions and to determine the timing of recognition, valuation and recoverability of assets in the future.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
How We Tailored the Audit Scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of entities covering non-trading legal entities, centralised functions and operating units, totalling 57 reporting units.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we considered the type of work that needed to be performed at the operating units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the extent of audit work needed at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
HUNTING PLC 96 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Groups reporting units vary significantly in size and we identified 10 operating units that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed at a further 13 operating units, to give appropriate coverage of all material balances at the Group level.
In doing so we conducted work in seven countries and the Group audit team visited certain reporting locations in the US, including visiting Hunting Titan, the one financially significant component.
Together, the reporting units subject to audit procedures accounted for approximately 93% of Group revenues and over 82% of Group absolute adjusted profit or loss before tax from continuing operations.
Further, specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, treasury, pensions and impairment, were performed by the Group audit team centrally.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risk of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that has the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as key audit matters in the table above.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality $5.0 million 2016: $5.0 million $7.1 million 2016: $6.8 million How we determined it 5% of five year average absolute profit or loss before 1% of net assets tax from continuing operations, adjusted for the impairment of goodwill and other non-current assets Rationale for We applied this benchmark because, in our view, this As the Company is a holding company and not benchmark applied is an appropriate metric against which the a trading entity, we have not used a profit-based performance of the Group is measured and of the benchmark for determining materiality.
Previously, we have with the prior year audit, we concluded that net used a three-year average to determine materiality, assets is more appropriate given that the however a five-year average is considered more Companys balance sheet is predominantly made appropriate to normalise recent profit volatility across up of intercompany balances.
We also noted that the underlying business operations.
As a result, most income and expense items relate to overall materiality has remained consistent with 2016 intercompany transactions and recharges.
For each component in scope for our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between $0.6 million and $4.5 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $0.3 million 2016: $0.3 million for both the Group and Company audits as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going Concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing material to add or to draw in respect of the Directors statement in the annual report about whether the attention to.
However, because not all future Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting events or conditions can be predicted, this in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going and Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the concern.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
HUNTING PLC 97 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HUNTING PLC CONTINUED Reporting on Other Information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements CA06.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 49 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 55 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 63, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 67 and 68 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 HUNTING PLC 98 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Responsibilities for the Financial Statements and the Audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 63, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of This Report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other Required Reporting Companies Act 2006 Exception Reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or The Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 7 August 1989 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 1989 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 29 years, covering the years ended 31 December 1989 to 31 December 2017.
Nicholas Campbell-Lambert Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 1 March 2018 HUNTING PLC 99 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
