149 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion Taken together, the components at which audit work was In our opinion, GlaxoSmithKline plcs Group financial statements performed accounted for 70% of consolidated revenue, 74% the financial statements : of consolidated profit before tax and 78% of profit before tax adjusted for certain items used to determine our materiality and give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs at covered all components that individually contributed more than 31 December 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for the year 2% of revenue, profit before tax and profit before tax adjusted then ended: for certain items used to determine our materiality.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Areas of focus Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US European Union: and Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Acquisition-related liabilities We have audited the financial statements, included within the Uncertain tax positions, transfer pricing and the impact of Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated balance sheet US tax reform at 31 December 2017: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then Litigation ended: the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: Finance transformation the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then Investigations into the Groups commercial operations ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit & Risk assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial Committee.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant As explained in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework Standards Board IASB.
applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates and In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component levels to respond Basis for opinion to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material We conducted our audit in accordance with International misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations or through auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements collusion.
We designed audit procedures that focused on laws and section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the event obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our of non-compliance particularly relating to, but not limited to, defence opinion.
of products, pricing and practices legislation, taxation and antiIndependence bribery and corruption legislation.
Our tests included, but were We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the not limited to, enquiries of management, review of related work ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial performed by component audit teams, review of relevant Internal statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as Audit reports and discussions with in-house legal counsel applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our supplemented by review of external legal counsel correspondence other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
and in certain cases by discussions with external legal counsel.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit We also inspected underlying support and calculations and services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided assessed and tested the design and operating effectiveness of to the Group.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above as the further removed non-compliance with laws Other than those disclosed in Note 8 to the financial statements, and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the we have provided no non-audit services to the Group in the period financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management Our audit approach override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was Overview evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material Materiality misstatement due to fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue Overall Group materiality: 290 million 2016 260 million, recognition.
Procedures designed and executed to address these based on 4% of profit before tax, adding back certain items.
risks included use of data enabled auditing techniques to test journal entries and post-close adjustments, testing and evaluating Audit scope managements key accounting estimates for reasonableness and Our audit included full scope audits of 18 reporting components consistency, undertaking cut-off procedures to verify proper cut-off with specific audit procedures performed at a further 49 reporting of revenue and expenses and testing the existence and accuracy components.
In addition, we incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit work each year.
150 GSK Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors report continued Report on the Group financial statements continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US We obtained managements calculations for accruals under applicable Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business schemes and validated the assumptions used by reference to the Refer to Notes 3 and 27 in the Group financial statements.
Groups stated commercial policies, the terms of the applicable contracts, third party data related to patient enrolment in US The Group makes sales to various customers in the US that fall government funded benefit schemes and historical levels of under certain commercial and government mandated contracts product returns.
and reimbursement arrangements, of which the most significant are Medicaid and Medicare.
The Group also provides a right of We compared the assumptions to contracted prices, historical rebates, return to its customers for certain products.
discounts, allowances and returns levels where relevant and to current payment trends.
We also considered the historical accuracy of the These arrangements result in deductions to gross sales in arriving Groups estimates in previous years and the impact of competitive at turnover and give rise to obligations for the Group to provide pricing pressures and greater discounting in the US market more customers with rebates, discounts, allowances and the right of generally.
We formed an independent expectation of the largest return, which for unsettled amounts are recognised as an accrual.
elements of the accrual at 31 December 2017 using third party data We focused on this area because rebates, discounts, allowances and compared this expectation to the actual accrual recognised by and returns arrangements are complex and because establishing the Group.
an appropriate accrual requires significant judgement and Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material estimation by the directors.
This judgement is particularly complex differences between our independent expectations and the accrual.
in a US healthcare environment in which competitive pricing pressure and product discounting are increasingly prevalent.
The directors have determined an accrual of 2,837 million to be necessary at 31 December 2017 2016 2,218 million.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Deploying our valuations specialists, we obtained the Groups Refer to Notes 3, 18 and 19 in the Group financial impairment analyses and tested the reasonableness of key statements.
assumptions, including profit and cash flow growth or decline, terminal values, the impact of the expiry of patents, potential product The Group has 16.5 billion of intangible assets 31 December obsolescence and the selection of discount rates.
We challenged 2016 17.8 billion, comprising significant licences, patents and management to substantiate its assumptions, including comparing acquired trademarks excluding computer software.
In addition, relevant assumptions to industry and economic forecasts.
the Group has 5.7 billion of goodwill at 31 December 2017 2016 6.0 billion.
Further, we verified the integrity of supporting calculations and we corroborated certain information with third party sources, including The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets will be expectations of performance of certain assets and components of the recovered through future cash flows and there is a risk that the business.
We obtained and evaluated managements sensitivity assets will be impaired if these cash flows do not meet the analyses to ascertain the impact of changes in key assumptions and we Groups expectations.
The impairment reviews performed by the performed our own independent sensitivity calculations to quantify the Group contained a number of significant judgements and downside changes to managements models required to result in estimates including revenue growth, the success of new product impairment.
launches, genericisation of existing products following patent expiry, profit margins, cash conversion, terminal values and As a result of our work, we determined that the carrying values of discount rate.
Changes in these assumptions could lead to an goodwill and intangible assets are appropriate in the context of the impairment to the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill.
Group financial statements taken as a whole.
We focused on intangible assets acquired through historical acquisitions, as these are the most significant individually and in aggregate, and a number have indefinite lives, including the most significant of the intangible assets acquired from Novartis in 2015.
The Group has also recognised goodwill from a number of its acquisitions, including the three-part transaction with Novartis.
151 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Report on the Group financial statements continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Acquisition-related liabilities We deployed our valuations specialists to evaluate certain key Refer to Notes 3, 27, 38, 39 and 42 in the Group financial assumptions, including growth projections and discount rates as well statements as the integrity and mechanical accuracy of each of managements valuation models.
This evaluation included look-back tests to assess In recent years, the Group has completed a number of significant the historical accuracy of the Groups forecasts and assumptions and transactions, including: performing sensitivity analysis over these key assumptions to determine The three-part transaction with Novartis in 2015: if they could have a significant impact on the value recorded.
Certain The establishment of ViiV Healthcare in 2009: and procedures are specific to individual liabilities and included the following: The acquisition by ViiV Healthcare of the remaining 50% interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012.
Consumer Healthcare put option: The redemption value to be agreed between GSK and Novartis is estimated by GSK based on Each of these transactions resulted in the recognition and a multiple of Consumer Healthcares profit.
We verified the integrity measurement of material acquisition-related liabilities, which of the model and compared certain key assumptions including necessitate significant management judgement at each balance exchange rates and multiples to third party sources.
valuations from third party banks to support its estimate, which we The most significant of the acquisition-related liabilities are obtained and considered.
As part of our work, we compared the outlined below: earnings forecast approved by the Consumer Healthcare board of Consumer Healthcare put option: The Group recorded a directors and used by management in its model to actual earnings in liability for the present value of the expected redemption price 2017 and understood the reasons for changes.
We also considered of a written put option over Novartis non-controlling interest in the appropriateness of the assumed exercise date and considered Consumer Healthcare.
At 31 December 2017, this liability had the impact of different exercise dates on the discounted redemption a carrying value of 8,606 million 2016 7,420 million : value of the option: ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration: On acquisition of ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration: We compared the the remaining 50% interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare projections for the Groups dolutegravir products to third party joint venture in 2012, 659 million was recorded as expectations of growth and considered the potential upside and contingent consideration.
This represented the fair value of the downside impact of products launched and expected to be launched expected payments to be made to Shionogi, contingent on by the Groups competitors: and future sales of dolutegravir products.
The liability is required to ViiV Healthcare put option: Certain assumptions related to forecast be re-measured to its fair value at each reporting date.
Since revenue from dolutegravir products used in the valuation of this initial recognition, it has increased in response to actual and liability are consistent with the ViiV Healthcare contingent future sales significantly exceeding original expectations.
For other components of the valuation, At 31 December 2017, the liability was 5,542 million we considered the appropriateness of the assumptions made 2016 5,304 million : and about forecast growth rates and margins by reference to historical ViiV Healthcare put option: In 2009, Pfizer was granted a performance and to board approved budgets and third party written put option by the Group that enables it to put its forecast data.
non-controlling interest back to the Group in the future.
Each of these three acquisition-related liabilities is subject to significant At 31 December 2017, the liability in respect of Pfizers estimation uncertainty and the range of possible outcomes is very written put option had a carrying value of 1,304 million broad.
However, based on our procedures performed, we are 2016 1,319 million.
comfortable that the value of each liability at 31 December 2017 is In addition to these liabilities, the Group has recorded certain reasonable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as other acquisition-related liabilities at 31 December 2017, a whole and reflects managements best estimates at this time.
including 584 million in relation to contingent consideration We reviewed the disclosures about each acquisition-related liability, payable on the acquisition of Novartis Vaccines business including managements commentary about estimation uncertainty in 2015. and the range of alternative outcomes.
We are satisfied that these We have focused on this area as the carrying value of each disclosures are appropriate.
of the financial liabilities is material and is determined by management judgements and estimates, including projections of future sales of products, the potential impact of competitor products and the delivery of anticipated synergies.
In addition, each valuation is sensitive to changes in other assumptions, including discount rates and tax rates, and US tax reform has therefore had a significant impact on the valuations in 2017.
152 GSK Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors report continued Report on the Group financial statements continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Uncertain tax positions, transfer pricing and the impact In conjunction with our UK, US, international tax and transfer pricing of US tax reform specialists, we evaluated and challenged managements judgements Refer to Notes 3 and 14 in the Group financial statements.
in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to assess the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
This included The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment obtaining and evaluating certain third party tax advice that the Group and there are open tax and transfer pricing matters with UK and has obtained to assess the appropriateness of any assumptions used.
In addition, from time to time the Group enters into commercial transactions with complicated accounting In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, we and tax consequences.
considered the status of recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries, the outturn of previous claims, judgemental positions taken Judgement is required in assessing the level of provisions required in tax returns and current year estimates and developments in the tax in respect of uncertain tax positions.
We noted that the assumptions and judgements that are Group has recorded provisions of 1,175 million in respect of required to formulate the provisions mean that the range of possible uncertain tax positions 2016 1,892 million.
However, based on the evidence obtained, we There have also been a number of changes in tax law in the US considered the level of provisioning and related disclosure to be and Switzerland that have resulted in a material impact on the acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken Groups current and deferred tax balances at 31 December 2017. as a whole.
The most significant impact has been in respect of the US Tax Deploying our US tax specialists, we evaluated the key judgements, Cuts and Jobs Act which was substantively enacted before assumptions and interpretations used by management to assess the year-end.
In aggregate, the total adjusting item to account for impact of US tax reform.
We have undertaken procedures to validate the impact amounts to 1,078 million in the tax line.
The main the material corporate tax rate change adjustments to current and changes include a reduction in the corporate tax rate that should deferred tax balances.
be applied to deferred taxation balances and the introduction of a toll tax for the deemed repatriation of certain deferred foreign With respect to the 348 million toll tax charge for the deemed earnings.
Some of the changes are complex and there are a repatriation of foreign earnings of subsidiaries of US entities in the number of areas of uncertainty relating both to the manner in Group, we have evaluated the documentation prepared by management which the law will apply and to the accounting in certain areas.
and assessed the underlying calculations together with advice from third party advisors, undertaken procedures to validate key inputs underpinning the estimated charge and confirmed that the liability is appropriately presented in the Groups balance sheet.
Given the complexity and uncertainty relating to US tax reform, we expect that there will be true-ups and updates to the estimates as further guidance is issued.
However, we are satisfied that the accounting positions taken by the Group at 31 December 2017 represent managements best estimate of the impact of US tax reform at this time.
Litigation We discussed the status of significant known actual and potential Refer to Notes 3, 29 and 45 in the Group financial litigation with in-house legal counsel.
We obtained and substantively statements.
tested evidence to support the decisions and rationale for provisions held or the decisions not to record provisions, including correspondence The pharmaceuticals industry is heavily regulated which increases with external legal counsel.
We also monitored and considered external inherent litigation risk.
The Group is engaged in a number of legal information sources to identify potential legal actions.
actions, including product liability, anti-trust and related private litigation, of which the most significant are disclosed in Notes We developed an independent expectation of the litigation provisions 29 and 45. based on product litigation history and other available evidence to challenge the valuation and completeness of the provisions recognised We focused on this area as the eventual outcome of claims is by the Group.
This included obtaining confirmations from external legal uncertain and the positions taken by the directors are based on counsel to confirm our understanding of settled and outstanding the application of material judgement and estimation.
Accordingly, litigation and asserted claims.
We also evaluated significant adjustments unexpected adverse outcomes could significantly impact the to legal provisions recorded during the year.
Groups reported profit and balance sheet position.
As disclosed in Notes 29 and 45 to the Group financial statements, At 31 December 2017, the Group held provisions of 186 million the eventual outcome of legal proceedings is dependent on the in respect of legal actions 2016 344 million.
There has been outcome of future events and the position taken by the Group is a significant reduction in the provision as a result of the Group inherently judgemental.
We found in the context of the Group financial settling its largest individual cases relating to Paxil.
Nevertheless, statements taken as a whole that the judgements made by management we have continued to focus on this area given the possibility of were reasonable and the disclosures made in respect of these adverse outcomes.
provisions and contingent liabilities were appropriate.
153 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Report on the Group financial statements continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Finance transformation We centrally managed the work performed by component audit teams at The Group continues to rationalise and simplify its finance BPOs and BSCs, which consisted of controls and substantive testing, processes including the roll-out of an enterprise-wide resource and we conducted oversight visits to key BSC and BPO sites in Group planning system ERP and migrations of accounting services to audit scope namely India, Malaysia, Romania, the US and the UK to in-house business service centres BSCs and to third party direct the work performed.
business process outsourcing locations BPOs.
The number of We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key market migrations onto the central ERP system in 2017 was lower automated and manual controls both before and after the migration into than 2016.
However, as a number of markets migrating in 2017 the centralised processing environment, including IT general controls pose particular complexity due to their position in the Groups and controls in respect of data migration between ERP systems.
We supply chain, we have continued to focus on this area.
also substantively tested the accuracy and completeness of data These changes represent a financial reporting risk while migrations migration into the new ERP along with the controls over this process.
are happening as controls and processes that have been established and embedded over a number of years are updated and migrated into a new environment.
There is an increased risk of breakdown in internal financial controls during the transition and an increased risk of inaccurate or incomplete migration of financial data, which would in turn increase risk of material misstatements to the Group financial statements.
Investigations into the Groups commercial operations We met with the directors, management and in-house legal counsel Refer to Notes 3, 29 and 45 in the Group financial and we spoke with the Groups external advisors to assess the risk statements.
of occurrence of inappropriate activities, the status of ongoing investigations and the potential for further fines and penalties.
The Group remains subject to an ongoing investigation into its This included understanding and evaluating the Groups internal commercial operations by the SFO in the UK.
At 31 December investigations processes, which assess risks and allegations reported 2017, the Group concluded that it does not have sufficient clarity through various channels including whistle-blowing hotlines.
We also on the likely timing of the completion of this investigation nor is it evaluated the ongoing enhancements and changes that have been able to make a sufficiently reliable estimate of any fine or penalty made to other control processes and business practices in recent years.
that the SFO might impose on the Group on completion of its investigation.
As a result, the Group has stated in Note 45 that Deploying our forensic specialists, we assessed the scope and findings it is unable to recognise a provision for its estimate of the of the investigative work performed by the Group as well as the risk eventual outcome.
assessment exercise that management has performed into third party interaction and engagement more broadly.
We used the output of this In addition, the Group continues to carry out its own investigations assessment to instruct component teams including certain markets not in a number of markets to ascertain whether inappropriate otherwise included in Group audit scope to undertake risk-focused commercial operations may have taken place.
audit procedures to address the audit risk that the Group financial We focused on the following risks, which might have a material statements might be materially misstated due to the potential financial impact on the Groups financial statements: implications of alleged illegal acts.
That a fine and penalty might be forthcoming in respect of In respect of the SFO investigation, we independently circularised and ongoing investigation into the Groups commercial operations spoke with external legal counsel engaged by the Group to obtain its by the SFO, which could give rise to the need for a material views about the status of the investigation and to ascertain the provision: and reasonableness of managements assertions in respect of the likely That inappropriate activities have occurred, which could outcome and the related disclosures in the Group financial statements.
also give rise to material fines or penalties or result in asset We were satisfied with the Groups provisioning decisions at 31 impairments.
December 2017 in the context of the Group financial statements taken as a whole and with the adequacy of the disclosures given the status of investigations.
154 GSK Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors report continued Report on the Group financial statements continued How we tailored the audit scope Further specific audit procedures over central functions, the Group We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed consolidation and areas of significant judgement including taxation, enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements goodwill, intangible assets, treasury, post-retirement benefits and the as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the elimination of unrealised intercompany profit in inventory were accounting processes and controls and the industry in which it directly led by the Group audit team.
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our The Group financial statements are a consolidation of over 500 audit work accounted for 70% of consolidated revenue, 74% of reporting components.
We identified 18 reporting components that, consolidated profit before tax and 78% of profit before tax adjusted in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information for certain items used to determine our materiality.
This was before due to their size or risk characteristics.
This excludes 13 central considering the contribution to our audit evidence from performing adjustment entities audited at a Group level.
Specific audit audit work at the divisional and Group levels, including testing of procedures over significant balances and transactions were monitoring controls and disaggregated analytical review procedures, performed at a further 49 reporting components to give appropriate which covers a significant portion of the Groups smaller and lower coverage of all material balances.
Where these reporting risk components that were not directly included in our Group audit components are supported by shared financial service centres, scope.
In addition, we obtained indirect audit evidence over certain these centres were also included in Group audit scope.
None of out-of-scope components through the procedures we undertook at the reporting components not included in our Group audit scope the Groups shared service centres, encompassing BPOs and individually contributed more than 2% to consolidated revenue, BSCs, and over centralised IT infrastructure where these processes profit before tax or profit before tax adjusted for certain items used are standardised.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting component units.
As a result, 10 overseas components were visited by senior members of the Group audit team, including each of the Groups financially significant components in the US which are visited at least annually as well as Japan, India, Switzerland, Italy, Brazil, Korea, Germany and Belgium.
In addition, we visited six of the overseas shared service centres supporting reporting components in Group audit scope.
For those components in Group audit scope where a site visit was not undertaken, our involvement included regular dialogue with our component teams and review of component auditor work papers.
155 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Report on the Group financial statements continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 290 million 2016 260 million.
How we determined it 4% of profit before tax, adding back certain items including the re-measurement charges for Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration 556 million and Vaccines contingent consideration 101 million, the re-measurement charges for the Consumer Healthcare put option liability 986 million, the ViiV put option re-measurement credit 126 million, the re-measurement of acquisition related liabilities as a result of US tax reform 666 million, major restructuring costs 1,060 million, significant legal costs 68 million and impairment of intangible assets 688 million and deducting net income relating to the gain on disposal of assets 314 million.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Groups principal measure of earnings comprises adjusted results, which adds back to statutory results a number of items of income and expenditure including those detailed above.
Management uses this measure as it believes that it eliminates material unusual or non-operational items that may obscure the key trends and factors determining the Groups operational performance.
We took this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we did not adjust profit before tax to add back amortisation of intangible assets and certain other smaller adjusting items as in our view these are recurring items which do not introduce volatility to the Groups earnings.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 15 million and 154 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to it misstatements identified during our audit above 10 million 2016 10 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this financial statements about whether the directors considered it statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in going concern.
preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
going concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
156 GSK Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditors report continued Reporting on other information Reporting on other information The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report or liquidity of the Group thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other The directors confirmation on page 105 of the Annual Report that information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business form of assurance thereon.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, explain how they are being managed or mitigated: and consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent The directors explanation on page 57 of the Annual Report as to with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an period they have done so and why they consider that period to be apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in material misstatement of the financial statements or a material operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less Act 2006 have been included.
in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and Based on the responsibilities described above and our work considering the directors process supporting their statements: undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters and considering whether the statements are consistent with the as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
knowledge and understanding of the Group its environment obtained Strategic Report and Directors Report in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the Other Code provisions audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the when: financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with The statement given by the directors, on page 104, that they applicable legal requirements.
CA06 consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its and understandable, and provides the information necessary for environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify the members to assess the Groups position and performance, any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our Report.
CA06 knowledge of the Group obtained in the course of performing our audit: The section of the Annual Report on pages 99 to 106 describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee: and The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
157 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements Use of this report As explained more fully in the directors statement of responsibilities This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only set out on page 148, the directors are responsible for the preparation for the parent Companys members as a body in accordance with of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Companies Act 2006 exception reporting In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, for assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, in our opinion: disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using we have not received all the information and explanations we the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either require for our audit: or intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations or have no certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material Appointment misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors We have audited the Group since its inception in 2000 and our report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high legacy firms were previously auditors to certain of the Groups legacy level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted components since at least 1974 which is as far back as records can in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material be obtained.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is at least misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or 44 years, covering, as a minimum, the years ended 31 December error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 1974 to 31 December 2017.
The year ended 31 December 2017 is they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic the final year of engagement following the Groups decision to rotate decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The parent company has passed a resolution in accordance with section 506 of the Companies Act that the senior statutory auditors name should not be stated.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 12 March 2018
