INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ALLIANCE TRUST PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of Alliance Trust PLC the company which comprise: income statement: statement of comprehensive income: statement of changes in equity: balance sheet: cash flow statement: and related notes 1 to 26.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: valuation and ownership of listed equity investments and other equity and fund investments and valuation of unlisted investments including subsidiaries, including consideration of management override of controls through the manipulation of key assumptions and estimates.
There were no changes in the key audit matters identified in the prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 26.9m which was determined on the basis of 1% of net asset value.
Scoping Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
The financial reporting process is outsourced to Willis Towers Watson the Manager, who have delegated certain accounting responsibilities to The Bank of New York Mellon.
As part of our audit we assessed the key controls in place at the Manager and The Bank of New York Mellon.
Changes in our approach The following changes were made during the year which altered the scope of the audit: as noted on page 3 a change in manager from Alliance Trust Investment Limited to Willis Towers Watson, resulting in a change in internal controls tested: and as described in note 2, the Company no longer prepares group accounts and as such our audit was scoped for the Company only.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 52 I II DIRECTORS' REPORT III CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Going concern We confirm that we We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they have nothing material considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their to report, add or draw identification of any material uncertainties to the companys ability to continue to do so over a period attention to in respect of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the have nothing material knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of to report, add or draw the directors assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state attention to in respect whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: of these matters.
the disclosures on pages 23-25 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 22 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the company required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit Key audit matter How the scope of our audit matter title description responded to the key audit matter Key observations Valuation and Listed equity investments 2,573.1m We assessed the design and No misstatements ownership of listed 2016: 3,163.9m and other equity implementation controls over were identified which equity investments and fund investments 129.2m valuation and existence of listed required reporting to and other equity and 2016: 93.0m represent the most investments.
those charged with fund investments.
significant number on the balance governance in regards We reviewed Controls Reports sheet and are the main driver of the to the valuation of the relating to Custody and Investment Companys performance.
Accounting provided by Bank of New of these 2,702.3m 2016: 3,257.9m York Mellon as Custodian and Fund We did not identify represented 90.70% of total assets of Accountant.
any differences when the Company at 31 December 2017 agreeing the Companys We confirmed 100% of the portfolio 2016: 92.48% see notes 2 and 9. investment portfolio of listed investments to confirmations There is a risk that the prices quoted to the confirmation received directly from the custodian in respect of the listed investments received directly from and depositary.
held by the Company may not be the custodian and We confirmed 100% of the valuation reflective of fair value.
of the listed investments to There is a risk over the recording and independent pricing sources.
custody of listed investments and whether listed investments recorded are the property of the Company.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 53 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ALLIANCE TRUST PLC CONTINUED How the scope of our audit Key audit matter title Key audit matter description responded to the key audit matter Key observations Valuation of unlisted As an investment entity, the Company We assessed the design and implementation No misstatements investments including presents its interests in subsidiaries of controls around the valuation of unlisted were identified which subsidiaries, including and other entities at fair value, investments.
In addition we tailored our required reporting to consideration of in accordance with IFRS 10. substantive testing to reflect the different those charged with management override categories of unlisted investments held in governance in regards Unlisted investments of 134.6m of controls through the portfolio.
to the valuation of the 2016: 217.3m are valued at the the manipulation of unlisted investments.
Directors best estimate of fair Subsidiaries key assumptions and value using the guidelines and We reviewed and challenged estimates.
methodologies on valuation published managements and external valuations by the International Private Equity for a sample of unlisted investments and Venture Capital Association and, including Alliance Trust Savings limited, where relevant the use of external focusing on the appropriateness of the valuers and may take account of valuation methodology and assumptions recent arms length transactions used within the calculations e. g. cash flow see Audit and Risk Committee report projections: growth projections: discount on page 34 and notes 2, 9 and 22.9 rate used.
We also considered how recent developments and actual performance are There are key inputs to the valuation reflected in the future projections.
As part calculations which reflect the Directors, of our testing we liaised with our internal external valuers and Investment valuation experts in relation to the testing Managers judgement see note 22.9. of Alliance Trust Savings Limited.
There is a risk that the application of an Other Unlisted Equities inappropriate valuation methodology and We obtained valuation papers for the or the use of inappropriate assumptions unlisted investments and reviewed the could result in the valuation of unlisted minutes of the Valuation Committee.
We investments being materially misstated.
considered and challenged whether the The risk of management override of assumptions made by the Investment controls due to fraud is a pervasive risk Manager were reasonable and confirmed of material misstatement in financial that the unlisted investments had been statements.
Specifically in regard to valued on a consistent basis.
the valuation of unlisted investments, Management override there is a risk that there is bias in the As part of our overall response to the estimates determined by management.
pervasive risk of management override, in addition to the procedures described above, we reviewed managements key judgements, assumptions and valuation methodologies for bias.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 26.9m 2016: 32.8m.
Basis for determining We determined materiality as 1% 2016: 1% of net assets.
materiality Rationale for the benchmark Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark applied for investors and is a key driver of shareholder value We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 539,900 2016: 657,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
|| Alliance T Alliance Trust rust PL PLC C Annual Annual R Repor eport t and Financial and Financial A Accoun ccounts 2017 ts 2017 54 54 I II DIRECTORS' REPORT III AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
As part of our audit we assessed the controls in place at Willis Towers Watson the Investment Manager who prepares the financial statements of the Company and also the key controls in place at Bank of New York Mellon Fund Accounting who maintain the underlying accounting records for investment transactions and related balances.
The following changes were made during the year which altered the scope of the audit: as noted on page 3 change in manager from Alliance Trust Investment Limited to at Willis Towers Watson, resulting in a change in internal controls tested: and as described in note 2 the Company no longer prepares group accounts and as such our audit was scoped for the Company only.
OTHER INFORMATION The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 55 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ALLIANCE TRUST PLC CONTINUED USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of these matters.
directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
OTHER MATTERS Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee now Audit and Risk Committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 20 May 2011 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2011 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 7 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2011 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Andrew Partridge Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Edinburgh, United Kingdom 7 March 2018 | Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 56 I II III FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 57
