Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: Inchcape plcs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and company statements of financial position as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of cash flows, and the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
Other than those disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the parent company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
88 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 88 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 19,100,000 2016: 17,500,000, based on 5% of profit before taxation and exceptional items.
Overall parent company materiality: 20,600,000 2016: 16,200,000, based on 1% of total assets.
Materiality We conducted our work in 20 countries covering 28 reporting units.
The reporting units where we conducted our audit work accounted for 97% of the Groups Audit scope revenue and 93% of the Groups profit before taxation.
Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment assessment.
Key audit Manufacturers bonuses and rebates.
matters Carrying value of inventory.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and parent company financial statements, including, but not limited to, Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, review of significant component auditors work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
com 89 Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill and acquired intangible assets impairment assessment Inchcape plc has 391.8 million of goodwill generated We evaluated managements future cash flow forecasts and from Cash Generating Units CGUs spanning seven the process by which they were drawn up, including testing the countries as at 31 December 2017 and indefinite lived underlying calculations and comparing them with the latest Board intangible assets of 170.7 million relating principally to approved budgets.
We challenged: the acquired Subaru and Hino distribution agreements.
projected vehicle volume and margin forecasts over the next five The risk is that these balances are overstated.
years by comparing them with external industry forecasts, where available, and historical and current results: The determination of recoverable amount of both the CGUs containing goodwill and the indefinite lived the long-term growth rate used to extrapolate the cash flows intangible assets, being the higher of value in use and beyond year five the period covered by Board approved fair value less costs to dispose, requires judgements forecasts into perpetuity, by comparing them with historical on the part of management.
Recoverable amounts results and wider industry forecasts: and are based on managements view of future trading the discount rate, by independently calculating the cost of capital performance and profitability and the most appropriate for the Group.
discount and long-term growth rates.
As required by We evaluated the historical accuracy of budgets and forecasts, accounting standards, management tests all CGUs for example, comparing the budgets used in the prior year valuecontaining goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets in-use model against the actual performance of the business in the for impairment on an annual basis.
These procedures enabled us to assess the accuracy The risk is most prominent in the UK Retail CGU, given of the forecasting process.
the limited headroom between the carrying value of We challenged management on the appropriateness of its goodwill and calculated value in use.
sensitivity calculations, in particular the assumptions relating to revenue growth decline, gross and operating margins, and the level of working capital required to support trading.
We determined that the goodwill calculations were most sensitive to forecast revenue growth and sales margins whilst the indefinite lived intangible assets were most sensitive to discount rates and revenue growth.
For all CGUs and the indefinite lived intangible assets, we calculated the degree to which these assumptions would need to move before an impairment charge would have to be recognised.
We satisfied ourselves as to the reasonableness of the assumptions used and judgements made by management in determining that there was no need to impair the carrying value of goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets.
Manufacturers bonuses and rebates In certain markets, principally the UK, the Group We understood and evaluated the controls and processes with receives rebates which are based in part on sales respect to manufacturers bonuses and rebates.
targets set by the Original Equipment Manufacturers We performed reconciliation of the bonuses recognised in the OEMs.
The Group is also entitled to further OEM income statement to credit notes obtained from the OEMs and bonuses and rebates dependent on achieving other to the bank statement during the period.
The quantum We reconciled the year-end accrued bonus to the detailed listing: of these amounts is material.
performing subsequent receipts testing for the accrued income The manufacturers bonuses and rebates are usually balance at year-end.
determined by the OEMs and have varying terms, the We recalculated a sample of the year-end accrued bonuses majority of which are governed by annual agreements, using the communication from OEMs and previously audited whilst others are based on shorter term arrangements revenue information.
entered into during the year.
To address the risk that income had been recorded in the incorrect We focused on this area as the amounts are material period, on a sample basis we agreed the information on the credit and because not all bonuses and rebates are directly note on a vehicle by vehicle basis back to audited revenue linked to quantitative measures, which means that information to validate the bonus had been earned in the correct the recognition of elements of these amounts period.
requires management judgement and estimation No significant issues were identified during our testing.
in determining whether they have been earned as at the balance sheet date.
90 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 90 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying value of inventory As at 31 December 2017, inventory of 1,768.6 million is We considered the Groups past trading performance, including held across multiple locations.
Inventory should be testing the levels of losses incurred on vehicle sales historically and recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value, subsequent to the year-end, to evaluate the level of provisioning being selling price less estimated selling costs.
and to assess the reasonableness and accuracy of managements provisioning methodology.
As gross margins on sales of vehicle inventory can be low and inventory is sometimes sold at a loss, provisions We established that the inventory provisions were reasonable are recorded against inventory to write it down to by independently recalculating the inventory provisions in each managements best estimate of its recoverable amount.
country, using the provisioning policy, and comparing the results with the actual provision level.
Management has established a formal provisioning policy based on historical performance and their future We also verified the completeness and accuracy of any trading forecasts.
additional provisions made by management outside of its standard policy where specific events or circumstances warranted additional provisioning.
Our testing confirmed that the provisions were reasonable.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the parent company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
We conducted our work in 20 countries covering 28 reporting units.
The reporting units where we conducted our audit work accounted for 97% of the Groups revenues and 93% of the Groups profit before taxation.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality 19,100,000 2016: 17,500,000.
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation and exceptional items.
Rationale for We believe that profit before taxation and exceptional We believe that total assets is the most benchmark applied items is the primary measure used by the shareholders appropriate measure as Inchcape Plc acts in assessing the performance of the Group, and is a as an investment holding parent company generally accepted auditing benchmark.
rather than a profit oriented trading company.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1,000,000 and 12,000,000.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1,000,000 Group audit 2016: 870,000 and 1,000,000 parent company audit 2016: 810,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention We have nothing material to add or to to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements about draw attention to.
However, because whether the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern not all future events or conditions can basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors be predicted, this statement is not a identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the parent guarantee as to the Groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least companys ability to continue as a 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to going concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
com 91 Independent auditors report to the members of Inchcape plc continued Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on pages 84 to 85 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 38 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
OTHER CODE PROVISIONS We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 80, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 50 to 55 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 92 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 92 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities section of the Directors Report set out on pages 79 to 80, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment We were appointed on 31 October 1958 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 1958 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 60 years, covering the years ended 31 December 1958 to 31 December 2017.
Neil Grimes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 February 2018 www.
