STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Bunzl plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state ofthe Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2017, the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow statement, and the consolidated and Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the Notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements inthe UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in Note 4 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 20 million 2016: 16 million, based on 5% of profit before taxation Materiality Overall Company materiality: 5 million 2016: 4 million, based on approximately 0.25% of net assets W e performed audits of the financial information of 84 components spread across 28 different countries across North America, Audit scope Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World S pecific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, pensions, acquisitions and the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, were performed by the Group audit team centrally Corporate tax exposures Group Key audit matters Business combinations Group Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Group Defined benefit pension schemes Group and Company 149 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC CONTINUED The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit proceduresto respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, orthrough collusion.
We designed audit procedures that focused on the risk of non-compliance related to laws and regulations.
Our tests included discussions with in-house legal counsel and inspection of underlying support and calculations where applicable.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Corporate tax exposures Group Refer to page 69 Audit Committee report, page 107 Accounting policies and We discussed with management their assessment of uncertain tax pages 115 and 116 Note 6. positionsand used our taxation specialists to assist us in challenging the appropriateness of managements judgements in relation to these The Group operates in a number of international territories with complex positions.
These procedures assisted in our corroboration of managements taxation rules and regulations.
The interpretation of these complex position on the amount of significant tax exposures and the provisions and regulations and the unknown future outcome of pending judgements disclosures made in the financial statements.
bythetax authorities result in the need to provide against a number ofuncertain tax positions.
In assessing the adequacy of the tax provisions, we also considered factors such as possible penalties and interest.
Furthermore, we determined that We focused on this area because of the risk surrounding the level of estimation the calculations were in line with the accounting standards and that the and judgement that is necessary in determining the provisions required.
methodology and principles had been applied consistently.
We consider the current level of tax provision to be reasonable.
Business combinations Group Refer to page 69 Audit Committee report, page 106 Accounting policies and Management relies on external valuation specialists to value significant pages 138 to 140 Note 24. intangibles acquired in business combinations.
Where management has relied on such specialists, we assessed their objectivity and competency Given that the Group continues to make significant investment in acquisitions, and tested the results of their work and found no material issues.
accounting for business combinations is an area of focus due to the level of judgement involved.
We used our own valuation experts to challenge the methodology and key assumptions used in determining the value of the customer relationship Business combinations can involve judgements in relation to the value of assets for the more significant acquisitions.
We determined that the cash assets and liabilities that are recognised on acquisition, particularly the flows applied within the valuation models and the key assumptions such allocation of purchase consideration to goodwill and separately identified asthe discount rates, growth rates, customer attrition and period for intangible assets.
Any misstatement made in the identification and or amortisation, were appropriate.
valuation of acquired intangibles gives rise to an equal, compensating misstatement in goodwill.
150 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Group Refer to page 69 Audit Committee report, page 108 Accounting policies and In our testing of managements annual goodwill and other intangible assets pages 118 and 119 Note 9. impairment calculations, we used valuation experts to assist our evaluation of the appropriateness of the models and the key assumptions used by The Group has material goodwill balances of 1,378.0m 2016: 1,191.5m management.
and customer relationship intangible assets of 954.6m 2016: 737.7m spread across multiple geographies and relating to multiple cash generating We evaluated the reasonableness of the directors cash flow forecasts by units CGUs.
comparing the assumptions made to internal and external data.
In assessing whether the carrying amount of goodwill has been impaired, In particular: management considers forecast cash flows of the 12 individual CGUs which we compared short term revenue growth rates to the latest strategic are identified on a market or geographical basis.
plans and found them to be consistent: We focused our goodwill impairment procedures on the CGUs with the lowest we determined that long term growth rates are generally consistent levels of headroom between each respective value in use model and carrying when compared to third party nominal GDP growth rates: value.
Consideration was also given to those CGUs with the highest goodwill and intangible balances the most material being North America, France and we found the achievability of future margins to be plausible based on Rest of Continental Europe.
past and current performance and consistent with budgets: Managements impairment assessments involves significant estimation, we challenged the discount rate used to determine the present value principally relating to short and long term revenue growth, future by assessing the cost of capital for the Company and comparable profitabilityand discount rates.
Due to the acquisitive nature of the Group organisations and considered them to be acceptable: and andthe magnitude of the aggregated related goodwill and intangible assets, we obtained evidence to assess adequate historical accuracy in together with the subjectivity of the principal assumptions, a significant managements forecasting process.
amount of audit effort was required, particularly as some of these assumptions are dependent on economic factors and trading conditions We also evaluated managements triggering event assessment regarding specific to overseas territories.
As described in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, management concluded that, based on their own sensitivity calculations, no reasonable change in assumptions would lead to an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.
Having ascertained the extent of changes in key assumptions either individually or collectively that would be required for goodwill and other intangible assets to be materially impaired, we considered such a change in those key assumptions to be unlikely.
Defined benefit pension schemes - Group and Company Refer to page 69 Audit Committee report, pages 109 and 110 Accounting We used our own actuarial experts to satisfy ourselves that the policies and pages 132 to 135 Note 20. assumptions used in calculating the US and UK pension scheme liabilities are appropriate, including confirming that salary increases and mortality The Group has defined benefits pension schemes with material schemes rate assumptions were consistent with relevant national and industry in the US and the UK with a net deficit of 51.0m at the current year end benchmarks.
We determined that the discount and inflation rates used 2016: 84.1m, which is material in the context of the Consolidated inthe valuation of the pension scheme liabilities were consistent with balancesheet.
ourinternally developed benchmarks and, where available, with those Management estimation is required in relation to the measurement of disclosed in the published financial statements of other companies as at pension scheme obligations, and management employs independent 31December 2017.
In each case we considered the assumptions made by actuarial experts to assist it in determining appropriate assumptions such management to be reasonable in light of the available evidence.
as inflation levels, discount rates, salary increases and mortality rates.
Movements in these assumptions can have a material impact on the determination of the liability and, therefore, the extent of any surplus or deficit.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group is organised geographically into four business areas, being North America, Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World.
151 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC CONTINUED We identified one financially significant component, being North America, where a full scope audit has been performed.
In addition to this, weidentified seven components across Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World for which a full scope audit of their financial information was required.
In order to satisfy the request of the Audit Committee and management, we performed full scope audits and other procedures on a further 84 components.
The components where we performed audit procedures covered over 95% of Group revenue, profit before taxation and total assets.
Where work was performed by component auditors, detailed instructions were issued by us and the Group audit team visited North America, Brazil, France and the UK.
Telephone discussions were also held with component auditors at these locations and with the majority of the components that the Group audit team did not visit in person.
In addition, specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, pensions, acquisitions and the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, were performed by theGroup audit team centrally.
The Group audit team also performed the audit of the standalone Company financial statements, for which all work was performed by the Group audit team.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 20 million 2016: 16 million.
How we determined it Given that the Groups businesses are profit Considering the nature of the business and activities Rationale for benchmark applied orientated and the directors use profit measures to in Bunzl plc holding activities we use the Company assess the performance of the business, we believe Net Assets value as a basis for the calculation of the that profit before taxation provides us with a overall materiality level.
consistent year-on-year basis for determining materiality.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components ranged up to 19.0 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million Group audit 2016: 0.8 million and 1 million Company audit 2016: 0.8 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, because attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the concern.
directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
152 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC CONTINUED Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other informationand, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report forthe year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 52 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 55 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 148, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 68 and 69 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
153 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC CONTINUED Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 148, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 19 May 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is four years, covering the years ended 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2017.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 26 February 2018 154 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017
