INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Material uncertainty relating to going concern Group and parent company Opinion In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not modified, In our opinion, Acacia Mining plcs Group financial statements and parent we have considered the adequacy of the disclosure made in Note 2 to company financial statements the financial statements : the Group financial statements concerning the Groups and the parent give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The impact of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups and the mineral concentrate export ban and negotiation with the Government parent companys loss and the Groups and the parent companys cash of Tanzania, along with the other matters explained in Note 2 to the flows for the year then ended: financial statements, indicate the existence of a material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the Groups and the parent have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The financial the European Union: and statements do not include the adjustments that would result if the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Group and parent company were unable to continue as a going concern.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Explanation of material uncertainty Note 2 to the financial statements details the directors disclosures We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual of the material uncertainties relating to going concern.
In addition, the Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the disclosures included in Note 6 to the financial statements provide further consolidated and parent company income statement and statement detail relating to the status and potential impact of the on-going mineral of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated concentrate export ban and negotiation with the Government of Tanzania and parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2017, the on the going concern status of the Group and parent company.
consolidated and parent company statement of changes in equity, and the consolidated and parent company cash flow statement for the year In forming their conclusions regarding going concern of the Group and then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include parent company, and as described in Note 2, the directors have a description of the significant accounting policies.
considered, but not limited to, the following matters: Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
the impact of the ban on on-going operations: the current cash position: Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on the latest mine plans and a range of scenarios around the various Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under options under these circumstances, including the cash flow impact of ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the an extended concentrate export ban: and the potential impacts of the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that timing and final terms of any comprehensive settlement which might be the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to approved by the parent company, including the lifting of the concentrate provide a basis for our opinion.
export ban and staged payments of US$300 million relating to historical tax matters: Independence the short-term gold prices and market expectations for the same in the We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical medium-term: and requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to Acacia Groups capital expenditure and financing plans.
listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical In addition, the directors have assumed that the Group will not be responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
required to settle its current outstanding borrowing obligations and To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit will repay these in accordance with the current terms of the relevant services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to agreements.
Given the risks associated with the impact of the mineral the Group or the parent company.
concentrate export ban and negotiations with the Government of Tanzania, the directors have drawn attention to this in disclosing a Non-audit services to the Group and parent company in the period from material uncertainty relating to going concern in the basis of preparation 1January 2017 to 31 December 2017 are disclosed in note 10 to the to the Annual Report.
Emphasis of matter Group and parent company Impact of mineral concentrate export ban and negotiation with the Government of Tanzania We draw attention to Notes 2, 6 and 34 to these financial statements, which describe the material uncertainties related to the impact of the mineral concentrate export ban and negotiations with the Government of Tanzania on the Groups and parent companys assets, liabilities and cash flows.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters.
104 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS What audit procedures we performed The scope of our audit and our areas of focus In concluding there is a material uncertainty, our audit procedures As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and included: assessedthe risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Inparticular, we looked at where the directors made Considering the ability of the Group to repay its borrowing obligations in subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting accordance with the current terms of its agreement, including through estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future inquiries of management and the directors, understanding of the status events that are inherently uncertain.
of the export ban negotiations and potential settlement outcomes and considering managements external advice: We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and Assessing managements cash flow forecasts and capital expenditure considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to plans, including reconciliation of the forecasts to the life of mine applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit models: procedures at the Group and mine site level to respond to the risk, Considering the on-going availability of the Groups facilities, including recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due reading correspondence between management and the finance tofraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, provider: and as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery Sensitising managements assessment for the impact of downside or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused risks including a delay in finalising a settlement, cash outflows in on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement excess of current forecasts, and continuation of the ban for the period in the Group and parent company financial statements, including the of managements assessment.
Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and mining licence compliance within Tanzania.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, inquiry of Our audit approach management, consideration of managements external advice and review Overview of mining licence documentation.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed nonMateriality Overall Group materiality: US$7.0 million 2016: compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions US$7.4 million, based on approximately 5% of reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become profit before tax adjusted for the impairment aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, Overall parent company materiality: US$7.0 million including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of 2016: US$7.3 million, based on the lower of 1% management override of internal controls, including testing journals of total assets and overall Group materiality.
and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors Audit scope We identified three mine sites located in that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Tanzania which, in our view, required an audit Key audit matters of their complete financial information.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional We conducted other audit procedures in London, judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial South Africa, Tanzania and Kenya.
statements of the current period and include the most significant Taken together, the territories and functions assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud where we performed our audit work accounted identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect for 100% of revenue and approximately 98% of on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: absolute profit before tax i. e. the sum of the and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and numerical values without regard to whether they any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were were profits or losses for the relevant territories addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a and functions.
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks Key audit matters Impairment assessments of goodwill, intangible identified by our audit.
assets and property, plant & equipment Group.
Taxation including provisions for uncertain deferred tax positions and the recoverability of indirect taxes Group.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 105 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment assessments of goodwill, intangible assets We considered managements impairment trigger analysis and agreed and property, plant & equipment that impairment indicators exist.
Refer to page 71 Audit Committee report, page 121 significant In assessing the valuation of the CGUs, we evaluated managements judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation future cash flow forecasts for each CGU, and the process by which they uncertainty, page 118 significant accounting policies and Note 6. were drawn up, including checking the mathematical accuracy of the cash Acacia Mining has goodwill of US$6.4 million, indefinite-lived intangible flow models and agreeing future capital and operating expenditure to the assets of US$76.0 million and property, plant and equipment of US$770.6 latest Board approved budgets and the latest approved life of mine plans.
million as at 31 December 2017, primarily contained within the following Managements future cash flow forecasts are underpinned by key Cash Generating Units CGUs : Bulyanhulu, North Mara, Buzwagi and assumptions regarding their current estimation of the timing and form acquired exploration and evaluation properties.
of a resolution of the export ban.
With regards to the outcome, we made Management determined that, amongst other things, the challenges inquiries of management and considered publically available information experienced in the operating environment in Tanzania and the announcement from the Government of Tanzania and Barrick Gold Corporation.
Whilst of new legislation by the Government of Tanzania in respect of the natural we consider managements best estimate to be consistent with the resource sector are impairment triggers for all CGUs.
Management therefore information made available to them, significant uncertainty remains as performed impairment assessments for all CGUs by reference to key terms a result of the nature of the on-going negotiations.
of the Framework and new legislation announcements made by Barrick and For each CGU we used our valuation experts to assist us in evaluating the Government of Tanzania in October 2017. the appropriateness of key market related assumptions in managements The Bulyanhulu CGU had a pre-impairment carrying value of US$1,232.4 valuation models, including gold prices, and discount rates.
million and contained goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets.
We assessed the reasonableness of managements future forecasts of Management determined that the recoverable amount of the CGU capital and operating expenses included in the cash flow forecasts in light of including the goodwill was lower than the carrying value, with a resulting the historical accuracy of such forecasts and the current operational results.
pre-tax impairment charge of US$837.9 million.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions within the Whilst impairment indicators were noted for all CGUs, the carrying values of cash flow forecasts using a range of discount rates and lower long term the Buzwagi and North Mara CGUs of US$194.3 million and US$249.2 million gold prices based on what, in our view, a market participant may apply.
respectively were supported by their recoverable value under managements impairment assessment, albeit with reduced headroom from prior years.
The For the Bulyanhulu CGU, the estimation of recoverable amount is determination of recoverable amount was based on the higher of value-in-use sensitive to changes in gold price assumptions and the effect on timing and fair value less costs to dispose, which requires significant judgements on of the start-up from reduced operation.
We formed an independent view the part of management in valuing the relevant CGUs.
of the gold price and discount rate that a market participant might use in a fair value less cost to dispose scenario which indicated a range of Recoverable amounts are based on managements views of the potential possible values for the CGU.
The carrying value of this CGU exceeded outcome of negotiations with the Government of Tanzania and variables this estimated recoverable amount, resulting in the need for an such as future commodity prices, the most appropriate discount rate and impairment charge.
We considered the allocation of the impairment timing and approval of future capital and operating expenditure.
charge between goodwill, property, plant and equipment and inventory In addition, management has recorded an impairment charge of US$12 and were satisfied that the methodology applied was appropriate.
million for the Nyanzaga exploration project to reflect the current estimate The remaining carrying value remains at risk depending on the outcome for the potential impact of the new mining laws on the carrying value of of a negotiated settlement with the Government of Tanzania.
the project, which now stands at $34 million.
With regards to the North Mara and Buzwagi CGUs, managements Management has additionally considered the recoverability of the estimated recoverable amounts supported the carrying value of these Investments in subsidiaries held in the parent company financial assets as at 31 December 2017.
In assessing the level of headroom statements and recognised an impairment of US$463.9 million, calculated at these CGUs we performed downside sensitivities based on an as the difference between the carrying amount of the individual investment independent view of a range of possible gold prices and discount rates, and the relevant segmental recoverable amount as calculated in the concluding that headroom was maintained under these scenarios, albeit Groups year-end carrying value assessment.
lower than in previous years.
Consequently, no impairment charge was considered necessary, although the estimate of recoverable amount remains sensitive to changes in these key assumptions.
With regards to the impairment charge recognised against the Nyanzaga exploration project, we agreed the assumptions within the estimated recoverable amount to a third party pre-feasibility study and confirmed the assessment of recoverable amount included the impact of the new Tanzanian mining laws to which the project is subject.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in Note 6 of the financial statements, including the sensitivities provided with respect to the CGUs.
We consider that the disclosures in respect of the impairment assessments of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant & equipment are of such importance that they are fundamental to users understanding of the financial statements and we have therefore included reference to the disclosures within the emphasis of matter above.
With regards to the impairment of Investments in subsidiaries, we have recalculated the charge with no exceptions noted.
106 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Taxation including provisions for uncertain deferred tax positions and the We read correspondence between management and the Tanzanian recoverability of indirect taxes Group Revenue Authority and assessed managements position in relation Refer to page 71 Audit Committee report, page 118 significant to the specific matters disputed.
judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation In relation to deferred tax, we also assessed the availability of estimated uncertainty, page 120 significant accounting policies and Note 21. future taxable income to utilise recognised carry forward losses and The Group has material deferred tax balances which include prior year the reversal of temporary deferred tax differences by comparing the tax loss assessments that continue to be in dispute with the Tanzanian estimates to the latest Board approved budgets and the latest approved Revenue Authority.
life of mine plans, and current expectations of the timing and form of a potential negotiated settlement with the Government of Tanzania based The Group has US$300 million of provisions for uncertain tax positions, on the Framework.
We consider the recognition of an additional with US$172 million recognised in the current period, on the basis that US$172 million of provisions appropriate taking into account the current it is more probable than not that this amount may be paid to settle status of negotiations, however recognise that a material risk continues outstanding assessments as part of a broader negotiated settlement with to exist with regards to the exposure.
This is based on the announcements made by Barrick Gold Corporation in October 2017 following their discussions We also determined based on the existence of a memorandum of with the Government of Tanzania.
settlement with the Tanzanian Revenue Authority for the indirect tax receivable, that the balance is recoverable, and appropriately classified In addition, the Group recognises significant indirect tax receivables, as non-current based on the expectation of future taxable profits in against which no payments have been received during the year.
We further determined that the offset between the of the receivables have been classified as non-current due to the continued corporate tax prepayment, current tax payable and the indirect tax delays in receiving cash refunds from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority.
balances is appropriately reflected in the financial statements based Management has therefore assessed that not all of the receivables will be on current agreements between the Group and the Tanzanian Revenue realised within 12 months.
The effect of discounting is immaterial.
Authority and Government of Tanzania.
Based on managements understanding, tax receivables and deferred tax We examined the Annual Report disclosures to ensure the risk losses remain recoverable.
associated with recovery was appropriately highlighted.
We consider that the disclosures in respect of taxation, including provisions for uncertain tax positions and the recoverability of indirect taxes, are of such importance that they are fundamental to users understanding of the financial statements and we have therefore included reference to the disclosures within the emphasis of matter above.
Except for the matters described in the Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern section, we have determined that there are no other key audit matters in respect of the parent company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope Involvement of the Group engagement team included attendance at We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough Acacias Tanzanian and South African offices, conference calls and work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, meetings with the Tanzanian audit team, review of the Tanzanian and taking into account the structure of the Group and the parent company, the Kenyan component auditor work papers, attendance at local audit accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
clearance meetings in Tanzania and South Africa, and other forms of communication as considered necessary depending on the significance The Groups assets and operations are primarily located at three mine sites in of the accounting and audit issues arising.
Taken together, the territories Tanzania representing the Groups three CGUs, with exploration properties in and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 100% Kenya and West Africa.
Financial reporting processes related to the activities of revenue and approximately 98% of absolute profit before tax i. e. the of these mine sites and exploration properties are undertaken at shared sum of the numerical values without regard to whether they were profits business centres SBCs located in Dar es Salaam and Johannesburg.
or losses for the relevant territories and functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each of the three mine sites, the exploration entities and the SBCs by us, as the Group engagement team and by component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
We requested that full scope audits were performed at each of the three main mine sites which included the relevant SBC.
In addition, we conducted other audit procedures in London, South Africa, Tanzania and Kenya, including specified procedures performed by a component audit team in Kenya over exploration expenses incurred within Acacia Exploration Kenya due to the quantum of costs incurred during the current year.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those sites and SBCs to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 107 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC CONTINUED Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality US$7.0 million 2016: US$7.4 million.
Overall parent company materiality: US$7.0 million 2016: US$7.3 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for the impairment charge Lower of 1% of total assets and overall Group materiality of US$850 million Rationale for We considered the impact of the on-going mineral concentrate We believe that total assets is the primary measure used in benchmark applied export ban and the reduced operations at Bulyanhulu and assessing the performance of the parent company as the consider the current year performance, adjusted for the function of the parent is to hold investments within the Group.
impairment charge, to be the most appropriate benchmark for materiality of the Group financial statements.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between US$3 million and US$6.9 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above US$1 million Group and parent audit 2016: US$1 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We draw your attention to the matters described in the Material respect of the directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Uncertainty Related to Going Concern section.
directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in Because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and parent uncertainties to the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going companys ability to continue as a going concern.
concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
108 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reporting on other information We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements course of the audit.
Listing Rules or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency Other Code Provisions or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial The statement given by the directors, on page 70, that they consider statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material understandable, and provides the information necessary for the misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also with our knowledge of the Group and parent company obtained in the considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 71 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, Directors Remuneration the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and out on page 97, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Directors Report.
CA06 financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to or liquidity of the Group enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
The directors confirmation on page 25 of the Annual Report that they In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern performance, solvency or liquidity.
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 25 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 109 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC CONTINUED Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 29 March 2010 to audit the financialstatements for the year ended 31 December 2010 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 8 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2010 to 31 December 2017.
JONATHAN LAMBERT SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF  LLP CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND STATUTORY AUDITORS LONDON 6 MARCH 2018 110 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017
