Ultra AR 2017 Financal Ultra AR 2008 Financial copy.
qxd 12 03 2018 09:00 Page 1 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 96 Independent auditors report to the members of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc In our opinion: Opinion on financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent statements of Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Ultra Electronics Holdings plc the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Accounting Policies: and the related notes 1 to 47.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and Basis for opinion applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Within this report Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: key audit matters are identified Revenue and profit recognition with the symbols below: Management override of controls New for 2017 Same as prior year Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets Defined benefit pension liabilities valuation.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 5.5m which was determined on the basis of 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 20 2016: 20 locations, 12 2016: 12 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 8 2016: 8 were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement.
These 20 locations accounted for 88% 2016: 87% of Group revenue and 94% 2016: 94% of underlying profit before tax.
Significant changes Due to the facts and circumstances which led to the trading statement in our approach of revised full year expectations being issued in November 2017 we consider there to be a heightened risk of management bias through the override of internal controls.
We have therefore performed additional procedures in respect of the risk of management override of controls and consider this to be a key audit matter as set out opposite.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 97 Going concern Conclusions relating to We have reviewed the directors statement on page 45 to the We confirm that we have going concern, principal financial statements about whether they considered it nothing material to report, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in add or draw attention to in risks and viability statement preparing them and their identification of any material respect of these matters.
uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and We confirm that we have considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge nothing material to report, we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge add or draw attention to in obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the respect of these matters.
Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 40-45 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on pages 38-39 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 45 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance Key audit matters in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Further to the inclusion this year of the risk of management override of controls as noted above in the summary of our audit approach, the valuation of Ithra-related provisions is no longer considered to be a key audit matter.
This is on the basis of the status of potential legal proceedings and associated legal matters addressed during the year.
Key audit matter continued overleaf Ultra AR 2017 Financal Ultra AR 2008 Financial copy.
qxd 12 03 2018 09:00 Page 3 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 98 Independent auditors report continued Key audit matters continued Key audit matter description Revenue and The Group recognised revenue of 775.4m in 2017 2016: 785.8m of which 467.0m 2016: profit recognition 443.5m related to revenue recognised in respect of long-term contracts accounted for under IAS 11.
There is a risk arising from either error or fraud, that revenue and profit is recognised incorrectly based on judgements within the cost to complete estimate for significant long-term contracts.
We consider that those contracts with a design phase have a heightened risk of cost escalation due to extended or unforeseen effort necessary to achieve contract milestones.
Further, given the bespoke nature and the length of time to develop and manufacture many of Ultras products and solutions, the contracts between Ultra and its customers can contain complex terms or contract variations and therefore there is also a risk that revenue is not recognised in accordance with such terms.
Refer to page 138 key sources of estimation uncertainty contract revenue and profit recognition : pages 139-140 accounting policies revenue recognition and long-term contracts : page 75 Audit Committee report significant judgements considered.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the design and implementation of controls over long-term contract accounting.
To confirm that revenue recognised to date is based on the current best estimate of the degree of work performed under the contract, for a sample of contracts we reviewed the evidence for the progress made against the contract, such as milestone completion.
To verify the margin achieved on the contracts, we sought to confirm the costs to complete, by agreeing to evidence of committed spend, budgeted rates or actual costs incurred to date when compared to the remaining work to be performed under the contract.
We reviewed the contract risk registers to provide evidence of the judgement taken when providing for the cost of mitigating technical risks and meeting future milestones.
We understood and challenged managements judgements by referring to evidence including signed contract terms and the latest project status reports, and discussed contract progress and future risks with contract engineers.
We also assessed the reliability of management estimates through consideration of the historical accuracy of prior period management estimates.
For our sample of contracts, we made enquiries as to any unusual contract terms or side agreements separate to the original contract, in addition to testing a sample of billings and costs incurred to date.
Key observations We considered the costs to complete and therefore the revenue and margin recognised on the sampled contracts to be appropriate, based on the assessment of the risks remaining in the contracts and work performed to date.
Key audit matter description Management We consider that the risk of error or fraud as a result of management override of controls is override of controls heightened in relation to the facts and circumstances which led to the trading statement of revised full year expectations being issued in November 2017.
There are a number of areas within the Group financial statements which contain accounting estimates made by management or which have been determined as a result of managements judgements as set out on page 138 key accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, in particular those areas of judgement and estimation uncertainty related to long-term contract accounting, the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, and the valuation of pension liabilities.
In addition, management also exercised judgement in the presentation of the Groups income statement, and the classification of items excluded from underlying profit measures, in particular the S3 programme as set out in note 2 to the financial statements.
Accordingly, there is a risk that the Groups results are influenced through management bias in determining such estimates and judgements.
This risk can manifest itself through the posting of invalid journals, recorded to influence the financial statements, which circumvent the controls in place to stop the recording of inappropriate journals.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 99 How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Management Our audit work has assessed the design and implementation of controls which address the risk of override of controls management override at both a business unit and on a Group basis.
continued We reviewed the areas of judgement and estimation uncertainty related to the areas noted above, to determine whether any evidence existed of management bias.
Further details of our audit response are included in the other key audit matters.
We challenged the distinction between underlying and non-underlying items of income or expense, particularly in relation to the classification of S3 programme costs.
This was done based on a review against the approved S3 programme plan, whether the costs were incremental to the ongoing business, and the nature of the costs incurred.
We reviewed the disclosure in note 2 to the financial statements to assess whether it is consistent with our understanding.
We profiled the full years transactions listing to identify manual journals displaying characteristics of potential fraud.
For the journals identified together with the Group consolidation journals, we have understood the business rationale and obtained appropriate audit evidence to support the journal.
Key observations We did not identify any material matters or bias arising from management override of controls.
Key audit matter description Valuation of goodwill The Group held 394.5m 2016: 415.6m of goodwill arising on its acquisitions made and and intangible assets 118.4m 2016: 155.2m of acquired intangibles as at 31 December 2017.
There is a risk that inappropriate judgements relating to future cash flow forecasts and discount rates are used which lead to the overstatement of the value in use, being the recoverable amount of these assets.
This could therefore result in an impairment being required.
This is particularly relevant given the volatility and uncertainty in defence spending in both new and traditional markets.
As a result of the lower level of headroom and future cash flow forecast growth assumed we have focused this key audit matter on the following goodwill and acquired intangible asset balances: goodwill attributable to the C2ISR and Infrastructure cash generating unit groups: and the acquired intangible assets associated with the Herley business.
Refer to page 138 key sources of estimation uncertainty impairment testing : page 140 accounting policy impairment of fixed assets : page 75 Audit Committee report significant judgements considered : and page 116 and 117 note 14 and 15 of the Financial Statements.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the design and implementation of controls over monitoring the carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangibles.
We challenged the discount rate and cash flow assumptions used by management in their impairment assessment.
We used valuation specialists within the audit team to benchmark the discount rate against independently available data, together with performing peer group analysis.
We obtained support for secured orders and used our understanding of these orders to underpin the Groups cash flow forecasts, considered external date on forecast market growth, and reviewed the historical performance of the businesses.
Having challenged the assumptions, we checked that the impairment model had been prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and was arithmetically accurate.
We challenged the appropriateness of managements sensitivities based on our work performed on the key assumptions, and recalculated these sensitised scenarios.
With regards to the disclosures within the Annual Report, we assessed whether they appropriately reflect the facts and circumstances within managements assessment of impairment over goodwill and acquired intangibles and specifically on the disclosure relating to the Infrastructure cash generating unit group under a sensitised scenario.
Key observations We are satisfied that headroom exists over the carrying value of the Infrastructure and C2ISR cash generating unit groups, and the acquired intangible assets associated with the Herley business, and therefore no impairment has been recognised.
We consider that the disclosure in note 14 of a goodwill impairment to the Infrastructure cash generating unit group after a reasonable possible change in assumptions is appropriate.
qxd 12 03 2018 09:00 Page 5 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 100 Independent auditors report continued Key audit matters continued Key audit matter description Defined benefit The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, Switzerland and Canada.
At pension liabilities 31 December 2017 the defined benefit pension scheme obligation was 389.0m which resulted in a net IAS 19 Employment Benefits deficit of 82.7m.
The UK scheme accounted for 99% of this net deficit.
valuation There is a risk that the assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligation for the UK scheme are not appropriate resulting in an inappropriate pension valuation which would have a material impact on the financial statements.
The most sensitive assumptions are the discount rate, inflation rate and life expectancy.
Refer to page 138 key sources of estimation uncertainty retirement benefit costs : and page 141 accounting policies pensions.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Our audit work assessed the adequacy of the design and implementation of controls over the accounting for defined benefit pension schemes.
We included a pension specialist within our audit team to assess the appropriateness of the assumptions through benchmarking to industry data and comparison with the peer group.
We reviewed the suitability of the methodology used to value the defined benefit pension scheme obligation.
Key observations Our assessment concluded that Ultras pension assumptions overall lie in the middle of our acceptable range.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it Our application probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or of materiality influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 5.5m 2016: 6.0m 2.2m 2016: 3.0m Basis for determining materiality 5% of underlying profit before tax Parent Company materiality represents less than 1% of net assets, but is capped at 40% Underlying profit before tax is reconciled to 2016: 50% of the Group materiality.
statutory profit before tax in note 2 of the financial statements.
In 2016, we determined materiality based on 7% of adjusted underlying profit before tax.
This was adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Rationale for the benchmark applied Underlying profit before tax is a key The Parent Company is non-trading, and we performance measure for the Group and it is therefore consider that a balance sheet based therefore an appropriate basis on which to metric is most appropriate to determine determine materiality.
We changed our benchmark as we consider The Parent Company is also a component of that managements underlying profit before tax the consolidated Group financial statements, is more relevant to the users of the financial and so the determined materiality has been statements because it eliminates the impact of capped by the level of materiality identified for acquisitions now and in the future.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 101 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences Our application in excess of 275k 2016: 300k for the Group and 100k 2016: 100k for the Parent Company, of materiality as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when continued assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Group materiality 5.5m Underlying PBT Group materiality Component materiality range 110m 2.2m to 3.3m Audit committee reporting threshold 0.275m Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, An overview of the including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
scope of our audit Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 20 2016: 20 locations, 12 2016: 12 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 8 2016: 8 were subject to either an audit of specified account balances or specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations.
These 20 locations, which are largely located in the UK and USA, represent the principal business units and account for 88% 2016: 87% of the Groups revenue and 94% 2016: 94% of the Groups underlying profit before tax.
They also provided an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the 20 units was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which did not exceed 60% of Group materiality 3.3m.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team follows a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or another senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the significant overseas component locations at least once every three years.
Every year, regardless of whether we have visited or not, we include the component audit partner and other senior members of the component audit team in our team briefing, direct the scope of their work for the purposes of our Group audit, discuss their risk assessment and review documentation of the findings from their work.
In 2017, a senior member of the Group audit team visited all of the UK components as well as the following overseas components: USSI, EMS, Herley, 3eTI, Ocean Systems, TCS, and Forensic Technologies.
Full audit scope 66 Full audit scope 65 specified audit specified audit procedures 22 procedures 29 Review at Review at Group level 12 Group level 6 Revenue % Underlying Profit Before Tax % Ultra AR 2017 Financal Ultra AR 2008 Financial copy.
qxd 12 03 2018 09:00 Page 7 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 102 Independent auditors report continued The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other We confirm that we have Other information information comprises the information included in the annual nothing material to report, report including the titles of the other information, other than the add or draw attention financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
to in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the Responsibilities of directors preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a Auditors responsibilities whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors for the audit of the report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material financial statements misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 103 This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Use of our report Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly Report on other legal and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. regulatory requirements In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for Opinions on other matters which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and prescribed by the the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable Companies Act 2006 legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Matters on which we are Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you We have nothing to report in required to report by exception if, in our opinion: respect of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report We have nothing to report in if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration respect of these matters.
have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Auditor tenure Other matters Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board of directors on 17 April 2003 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2003 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 14 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2003 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Alexander Butterworth ACA, Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 5 March 2018
