Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Our audit approach Opinion Overview In our opinion, Schroders plcs Group financial statements and Materiality Overall Group materiality: 40.0 million Company financial statements the financial statements : 2016: 32.2 million, based on 5% of profit before give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the tax and exceptional items.
Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit Overall Company materiality: 46.0 million and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then 2016: 43.9 million, based on 1% of total assets.
ended: Audit scope The Group has three business segments, Asset have been properly prepared in accordance with International Management, Wealth Management and the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Group segment, consisting of over 140 legal Union and, as regards the Companys financial statements, as entities operating in 29 countries.
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act We audited the complete financial information 2006: and for 14 legal entities, due to their size and or risk have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the characteristics.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial Taken together, the territories and functions in statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the scope of audit work accounted for 84% of the We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Groups revenues, 82% of the Groups profit Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the before tax and exceptional items and 98% of the Consolidated and Schroders plc statements of financial position as at Groups total assets.
31 December 2017: the Consolidated income statement and the Key audit Group Risk of misstatement of revenue and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated matters cost ofsales.
and Schroders plc cash flow statements, and the Consolidated and Schroders plc statements of changes in equity for the year then Group Valuation and completeness of uncertain ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a tax liabilities.
description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit and Risk The scope of our audit Committee.
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and Basis for opinion assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and Independence considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical procedures at the Group and significant component level to respond requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to material misstatement in the Group financial statements, including the Group or the Company.
but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to Other than those disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in significant component teams.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. supporting documentation, review of correspondence with the regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, review of significant components work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
160 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Group Risk of misstatement of revenue and cost of sales Refer to page 59 Audit and Risk Committee Report and note 2 We understood the significant revenue and cost of sale items and Revenue, note 3 Cost of sales identified where there was a higher risk of error, due to manual processes, bespoke or complex contractual terms, and areas of Revenue, which comprises management fees, performance fees, judgement so that we could focus our work in these areas.
other income and Wealth Management interest income, is the result of business activities within both the Asset Management and Wealth We tested the operating effectiveness of key controls in place across Management segments.
Commissions, external fund manager fees, the Group relevant to those revenue and cost of sales calculations, distribution fees payable and Wealth Management interest expense including the AUM, set up and maintenance of contractual terms are recorded as an expense within cost of sales.
The Group and fee billing and commission payment systems.
recognised revenue of 2,511.7 million 2016: 2,144.9 million and We also obtained and assessed independent assurance reports for cost of sales of 501.5 million 2016: 432.1 million.
the relevant controls at the third party administrators and The calculations of revenue and cost of sales are largely automated.
considered whether there was any impact on our audit.
There are a number of inherent risks in calculating certain types of Where the calculations are automated, we used computer assisted revenue and cost of sales, including the interpretation and manual auditing techniques to recalculate revenue, management fee input of key contractual terms and the identification and valuation of rebates and commission expenses including testing changes to applicable Assets Under Management AUM, which could result in revenue systems and processes during the year.
The bespoke and complex nature of certain investment we agreed key inputs into the systems back to contracts, and management agreements, distribution agreements and other re-performed calculations involving manual processes.
contractual terms involving multiple entities globally requires We re-performed a sample of performance fee calculations to check effective monitoring to ensure all financial terms and conditions are captured completely and accurately and applied appropriately.
that performance fees were appropriately calculated.
We tested the data used to the Groups underlying systems, agreed the basis of Performance fees also remain an area of focus.
The calculation basis calculation to the contractual terms and agreed the benchmark is set out in the relevant fund prospectus or investment performance to an independent third party source.
An increased risk of error exists due to the Our testing did not identify any evidence of material misstatement.
complexity in both in the interpretation of the agreements as well as the calculation of the manual components as the performance of relevant assets is compared to a relevant benchmark.
Group Valuation and completeness of uncertain tax liabilities Refer to page 59 Audit and Risk Committee Report and note 6 We compared the Groups transfer pricing policy against our Taxexpense.
understanding of the activities of the Group and the OECD principles for Multinational Enterprises and Tax Administrations and local tax The Group is required to make estimates in respect of potential legislation.
We tested the application of the transfer pricing by legal uncertain tax positions.
As the Group operates across multiple entity within our revenue testing through recalculation of the countries with differing tax regimes, there is an inherent risk in the allocations and agreeing the key inputs to underlying agreements.
interpretation and application of the legislation in each territory in respect of the Groups global business.
For most organisations, We considered managements approach to uncertain tax positions there is heightened risk of challenge from tax authorities over the and tested the calculation of the current and deferred tax positions application of legislation, both locally in individual territories and estimated at the individual legal entity level and at the Group level.
cross border, which increases the uncertainty over the completeness We considered management bias and performed sensitivity analysis and valuation of tax balances.
This led us to focus on this area.
to determine the impact of changes in the key assumptions, both For a number of operating companies within the Group the taxable individually and in aggregate.
profit is generated, in part, through the allocation of total Group We did not identify any evidence of material misstatements.
revenue based on the nature of activities performed in each country and the relevant arms length fee basis for those activities.
This procedure is governed by a transfer pricing policy to ensure revenue and costs are recognised appropriately in accordance with the applicable tax legislation.
The Group had a tax charge of 165.8 million 2016: 127.9 million for the year.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 161 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Group Acquisitions accounting Refer to page 59 Audit and Risk Committee Report and note 29 We read and understood the legal agreements entered into by the Business combinations.
Group in relation to the acquisitions and considered the basis of their inclusion in the consolidated financial statements.
During the year the Group made a number of acquisitions, the most significant of which is Adveq Holding AG and the wealth We tested the consideration and the identification and valuation of management business of C. Hoare & Co.
The accounting for the identified net tangible and intangible assets acquired.
We acquisitions can be complex, including the identification and gathered evidence to confirm that the accounting treatment was in valuation of assets and liabilities acquired.
This was an area of focus line with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
We tested and challenged the valuation models prepared by the The Group is required to identify and assess the fair value of the net Group for the separately identified intangible assets and, with assets acquired and the valuation of the goodwill attributable, which respect to the revenue receivable and employee liabilities, acquired is inherently subjective in nature.
Our focus was to assess tangible net assets.
We tested these models by: comparing the key managements determination of fair value for the identified assets assumptions for example discount rate, growth rates and longevity and liabilities acquired.
of acquired client relationships against available market data: testing key data inputs to source records for example assets under At 31 December 2017 the goodwill from acquisitions totalled management : and testing the carried interest calculations.
595.1million and acquired intangible assets total 124.0 million.
We also performed sensitivity analysis to determine the impact of plausible alternative assumptions, both individually and in aggregate.
We have evaluated the appropriateness of the disclosures included within the Group financial statements relating to the acquisitions completed during the year and up to the date of this report.
We did not identify any evidence of material misstatements.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the In connection with this years audit the Group team met with all the Company to communicate in our report.
local audit teams responsible for each of the 14 entities identified as being significant to the scope of Group audit, as well as holding How we tailored the audit scope regular discussions with those teams throughout the audit process.
In We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed addition we met with the Groups centralised finance teams in the UK, enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements Singapore, Luxembourg and Switzerland.
as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in number of Group items, including valuation of investments, goodwill which they operate.
and acquired intangible assets and employee benefits expense, were The Group operates with four centralised finance functions in the UK, audited by the Group engagement team.
Luxembourg, Switzerland and Singapore along with smaller functions Taken together the entities in scope for the Group audit accounted for in many of the territories in which they operate.
84% of the Groups revenues, 82% of the Groups profit before tax and In establishing the overall approach to the audit of the Group, we exceptional items and 98% of the Groups total assets.
considered our assessment of the risk of material misstatement Materiality within each consolidated entity.
We concluded that 14 entities generated significant activities or balances materially relevant to the The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of results of the Group through the consideration of various factors such materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
as their contribution to the Groups profit before tax and exceptional These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to items, their contribution to significant risk areas and to provide determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of sufficient evidence over each line item in the Groups financial our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items statements.
We determined the audit work that needed to be and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both performed by us, as the Group engagement team, or by local teams individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
within PwC UK or from other PwC network firms.
Where the work was performed by local audit teams, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work for those entities to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
162 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 40.0 million 2016: 32.2 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
Rationale for Profit before tax is a standard benchmark used in Total assets is a standard benchmark when benchmarkapplied determining materiality.
We have adjusted it for determining the materiality of a holding Company.
exceptional items given the one-off nature of these For the purposes of the Group audit, we applied a items, which would distort the basis of the calculation.
lower materiality of 17.0 million for certain account balances, classes of transaction and disclosures that were relevant to the Group financial statements.
For each entity in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 7.0 million to 28.0 million.
Certain entities were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.5 million Group audit 2016: 1.5 million and 0.9 million Company audit 2016: 0.8 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to We have nothing material to add or to draw attention in respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether to.
However, because not all future events or conditions the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue going concern.
as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
With respect to the Strategic report, Directors report and Corporate Reporting on other information Governance report, we also considered whether the disclosures The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our Based on the responsibilities described above and our work opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters of assurance thereon.
as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 163 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc Strategic report and Directors report Other Code Provisions In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors toreportwhen: report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the The statement given by the Directors, on page 94, that they financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced applicable legal requirements.
CA06 and understandable, and provides the information necessary for In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, performance, business model and strategy is materially we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company report and Directors report.
CA06 obtained in the course of performing our audit.
Corporate Governance report The section of the Annual Report on pages 56 to 61 describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement Committee.
about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA the DTR is consistent for review by the auditors.
with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 Directors Remuneration In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration report to Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on pages 36 and 60 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on pages 36 and 93 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules 164 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements Responsibilities for the financial statements Other required reporting andtheaudit Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Responsibilities of the Directors for the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: financialstatements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities we have not received all the information and explanations we set out on page 94, the Directors are responsible for the preparation require for our audit: or of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they branches not visited by us: or determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to not made: or fraud or error.
the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a accounting records and returns.
going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to Appointment cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Group listed in 1959 and we have been auditors of the Group Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the since this date, with subsequent annual reappointment by the members at the Annual General Meeting.
Based on available records, financialstatements the period of total uninterrupted engagement is 59 years, covering Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the the years ended 31 December 1959 to 31 December 2017. financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could for and on behalf of  LLP reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors taken on the basis of these financial statements.
London 28 February 2018 A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 165
