Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Audit scope Cobham plc has 58 reporting units which fall into four reporting sectors.
Of the 58 reporting units 15 were subject Opinion to an audit of their complete financial information due to In our opinion: their size.
Cobham plcs Group Financial Statements and Parent Company Financial Specific audit procedures were performed on certain Statements the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state balances and transactions in respect of other units.
of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 We visited three out of four overseas locations to directly and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: supervise the work of component auditors.
For all locations The Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in we reviewed work papers and maintained regular dialogue.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Areas of focus Revenue and profit recognition on contracts Group.
adopted by the European Union: Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment The Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in assessments Group.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Inventory provisioning Group.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, Reduced Accounting for uncertain tax provisions and recoverability Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and of deferred tax assets Group.
The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the Utilisation or releases of provisions through non-underlying requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group profit Group and Parent.
Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements, included within the Annual Report The scope of our audit and Accounts, which comprise: the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks as at 31December 2017: the Group Income Statement and Statement of of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, and the Group at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and and the Notes to the Financial Statements, which include a description of the considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and Basis for opinion regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate the Financial Statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a for our opinion.
material misstatement in the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements, including, but not limited to: the Special Security Agreement SSA regulation Independence for the Advanced Electronic Solutions sector, being the most significant We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical regulatory framework: the Companies Act 2006: Pensions Regulator legislation: requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the and UK and US tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to: UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public agreeing the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in documentation: review of correspondence with and reports to the regulators: accordance with these requirements.
review of correspondence with legal advisors: enquiries of management: review of significant components auditors work: and review of internal audit To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services reports in so far as they related to the Financial Statements.
There are inherent prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed the Parent Company.
non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the Financial Statements, the less likely we would become aware Other than those disclosed in note 4 to the Group Financial Statements, we of it.
have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override Our audit approach of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was Overview evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Materiality Overall Group materiality: 8.7 million 2016: 9.8 million, based on 5% of underlying profit before tax.
Key audit matters Overall Parent Company materiality: 39.7 million 2016: 35 Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional million, based on 1% of total assets.
We applied a lower judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the Financial Statements materiality of 5 million 2016: 5 million to certain line of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material items, account balances and disclosures that were in scope misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including for the audit of the Group Financial Statements.
those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the In response to the level of historical adjustments raised allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the within inventory and contract balances, mainly affecting engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results work in progress and sales reserves we have reduced overall of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the materiality specifically for these two areas to 5.5 million.
Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
com 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue and profit recognition on contracts Group We tested the recognition of revenue transactions close to the period end to establish Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report Programme watchlist whether they were recorded in the correct period.
This included agreement to external Revenue and contract accounting and page 88 Note 1, shipping evidence, shipping terms and authorised milestone documentation with customer Accounting policies, management judgement and estimation acceptance where appropriate.
No material misstatements were identified.
uncertainty contract risk and programme execution.
We assessed, through our audit of significant contracts, the basis of profit or loss recognition For revenue from the sale of goods, we focused on cut-off around on the Groups significant contracts, together with whether it is appropriate to account for the year end because material revenue transactions can occur them as separate or linked contracts.
We evaluated the accounting in the context of the close to that date.
Group accounting policies, contract terms and accounting standards.
We found the accounting, in all material respects, to be in accordance with accounting standards and The Group also has a number of significant contracts that span Group policies.
more than one accounting period.
These contracts are subject to a high level of scrutiny by management.
In particular, we focused For significant new contracts, we read the key contract terms and for ongoing contracts, we on complex development and production contracts including understood any change clauses or amendments agreed in the year, considering whether any those on aerial refuelling programmes such as KC-46 and A400M.
areas were subject to interpretation or dispute.
We looked at the track record of customer behaviour, and any correspondence, in order to obtain evidence of how terms were being The nature of much of the contracting work done by the Group interpreted.
We found the accounting, in all material respects, to be in accordance with our means that there are reasonably frequent contractual issues, understanding of customer arrangements.
variations and renegotiations that arise in the ordinary course of business, whose resolution is uncertain.
Costs incurred can We challenged the reasonableness of the assumptions behind estimated costs to complete significantly exceed amounts estimated as a result of material by meeting with engineering staff to enquire about project estimates, checking the basis enhancements to the specifications originally assumed under of overhead rates used and, on a sample basis, checking purchase orders for materials.
For the contracts detailed above, we focused on: also inspected risk registers and the process by which risk was included within the cost to The amount of revenue assumed as recoverable from complete estimate.
Where there was insufficient evidence, we reviewed managements customer claims which are subject to commercial negotiation: range of outcomes and prepared an independent range to understand if the estimate was The estimation of costs to complete the contract: materiality different from an adverse or favourable position.
As part of this work performed, Whether contracts with the same customer should be we check that cost contingency recorded meets the requirements of IAS 37.
No material accounted for as separate or linked: impacts were identified.
Whether the profit recognised on revenue in the year is appropriate: We agreed total contracted revenue to original signed customer contracts, approved Whether associated assets held on the Balance Sheet work in change orders or to evidence of customer discussions and agreements.
We evaluated the progress and accrued income are recoverable or whether a reasonableness of estimated revenue through a review of, and discussion about, customer contract loss provision should be recorded: claims submitted to recover additional costs incurred and considered correspondence The recognition of significant revenue milestones which with the customer.
No material exceptions were found.
often involve judgement surrounding the achievement of those milestones: We assessed the recoverability of the assets held on the Balance Sheet by reference to Whether the additional cost contingency meets the definition agreements with customers regarding payment or billing profiles.
No material exceptions for the recognition and measurement of a provision.
We agreed contract loss provisions recorded through a combination of the procedures above in respect of the overall outcome anticipated on the contract.
We read the disclosures relating to key estimates and judgements in these Financial Statements and are satisfied that the disclosures made were appropriate.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment We assessed managements impairment testing relating to the ten CGUs with goodwill assessments Group balances by obtaining the supporting model and assessing the methodology used and key Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report Goodwill and assumptions made: acquired intangible assets, page 88 Note 1, Accounting policies, Future cash flow forecasts: we evaluated the reasonableness of future cash flow forecasts management judgement and estimation uncertainty impairment based on managements accuracy of forecasting and our knowledge of the businesses: of goodwill and pages 105 to 107 Note 9, Intangible assets.
Discount rates: to assess the discount rates used in the model, we used an internally developed range of acceptable discount rates for valuing CGUs, which is based on our During 2016, an impairment charge of 573.8m was recognised view of economic indicators.
All discount rates used fell within the range expected for against goodwill and other intangible assets.
A key focus of our all territories: and 2017 audit was the carrying value of the remaining assets.
Long term growth rates: we compared the rates applied in the model against our own internally developed published rates.
Management conducts an annual impairment assessment to test whether the carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangible To assess the Helicopter Services impairment charge, we: assets exceeds the present value of the cash flows of the Cash Compared the future cash flow forecasts to historic performance and considered them Generating Units CGUs to which they relate.
appropriate based on our knowledge of the business, including contract losses in Qatar and Trinidad during the year: An impairment charge of 33.5m has been recognised against We recalculated the impairment charge and confirmed that this had been accounted the Helicopter Services Business Unit.
lower growth expectations for 2018 onwards following major contract changes.
For the remaining CGUs, we performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions in order to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions required individually or As a result of the 2016 impairment assessment, an impairment collectively to result in an impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets.
For those charge was recognised against intangible assets in the Wireless business units which were most sensitive, we discussed the basis for these cash flows with Business Unit.
In the 2017 assessment, the future growth senior management, concluding that these are appropriate with no impairment required.
expectations of the business have improved, resulting in the reversal of this previous impairment.
We obtained evidence that the reversal of the impairment charge in respect of acquired intangible fixed assets in the Wireless business is compliant with both IAS 36 and IFRS 5 and Amounts relating to the Wireless and AvComm Business Units has been calculated appropriately.
The disclosures in note 9 are considered appropriate.
have been reclassified as held for sale as at 31 December 2017.
Management have redefined a CGU to being a Sector.
This is considered appropriate Following completion of Aeroflex integration activities and as part following the completion of Aeroflex integration activities and based on the information of a wider strategic review, management have redefined a CGU now being provided to, and reviewed by, senior management.
This transition is compliant from having been at a business unit level historically, to now being with IAS 36.
We are satisfied with the disclosure provided explaining the change.
at a Sector level, as this is the level at which senior management now assess the performance of the Group.
In this year of transition, Managements disclosure in note 9 to the Group Financial Statements includes sensitivities at management performed their assessment at a business unit level a Sector level.
This is also compliant with IAS 36 which requires disclosure of possible changes before moving to Sector level in order to ensure that necessary in key assumptions prospectively, during which period the impairment assessment for impairments were booked.
goodwill and acquired intangible assets will be monitored at a Sector level.
Through review of the impairments booked and reversed, the disclosures made and the overall impairment assessment performed by management, we did not identify any .
Inventory provisioning Group We assessed the process, methods and assumptions used to develop the provision for slow Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report Inventory provisions, moving, excess or obsolete items.
This included comparing managements calculations for page 88 Note 1, Accounting policies, management judgement and consistency against those used in the prior year and, where forecast demands were used in estimation uncertainty inventory provisions and page 107 Note the assessment, managements historical forecasting accuracy.
In situations where there 12, Inventories.
was evidence that management forecasts had not been achieved, we assessed whether the provision had taken account of the likelihood of failure to meet future forecasts.
The nature of some of the Groups business means that the products developed can become technically obsolete.
There may We also considered whether there was any indication of management bias such as be long lead times on the supply of materials which requires the management overrides to the established methodology.
holding of inventory to meet customer required delivery dates.
It is also necessary to hold additional spare parts in order to Management overrides are typically applied in respect of spares held for the servicing of support key customers and programmes should the products products on aircraft which have a long service life or where the business has purchased last require replacement or servicing.
time buys for components which would no longer be available for purchase.
Where overrides were material, we considered the appropriateness of managements judgement based on The Group had gross inventory of 465.4m and provisions for historical usage and future usage expectations.
obsolescence of 76.0m on its Balance Sheet.
Inventory holdings and aging remain a particular focus by management.
We focused on this area because inventory provisions include subjective estimates.
They are influenced by assumptions concerning future realisable value and usage.
Some businesses have experienced lower than expected demand and have had challenges with revenue forecasting.
In addition, the methods used for this estimate vary between reporting units depending on the nature of the business and inventory.
Furthermore, with the delay in some of the programmes, the spares inventory is becoming more aged and is at risk of being damaged or subject to a new level of conformity.
com 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for uncertain tax provisions and We discussed with management the known uncertain tax positions and read recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Group correspondence from tax authorities and external legal counsel on open tax enquiries.
Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report Uncertain tax positions, page 88 Note 1, Accounting policies, management We assessed the adequacy of the Directors taxation provisions by considering factors such judgement and estimation uncertainty taxation, pages 98 to 101 as the risk profile of each matter, managements appetite for settlement and whether the Note 6, Taxation and page 124 Note 26, Contingent liabilities.
provision addresses possible penalties and interest.
The Group has a wide geographic footprint and is subject to tax We met with senior management and managements expert and challenged the judgements laws in a number of jurisdictions.
The Group has a number of open made in relation to a range of outcomes in respect of open enquiries.
We assessed the risk tax enquiries and has recognised a number of centrally held from tax authorities by comparing managements assessment against our own views based provisions against uncertain tax positions, the valuation of which is on all available correspondence and use of specialists.
Where tax positions are not settled with the tax authorities, the Directors take into account precedent and We assessed the recoverability of deferred tax assets, comparing the cash flow forecast used the advice of external experts.
by the Directors in making that assessment against those used for the goodwill impairment review and viability assessment.
We found that the judgements made by management were The Group has material deferred tax assets, principally in respect within an acceptable range.
The Directors apply judgement in establishing whether deferred tax assets are recoverable.
We reviewed the disclosures made in respect of tax, in particular around estimates and uncertainties, as well as contingent liabilities and impact of restatement, and are satisfied that the disclosures made were appropriate.
Utilisation or releases of provisions through nonWe assessed the movements in provisions during the year and obtained evidence for any underlying profit Group and Parent Company.
Refer to page 58 Audit Committee Report Provisions and material disputes, page 88 Note 1, Accounting policies, We reviewed the disclosure made in respect of these movements and the impacts to the management judgement and estimation uncertainty definitions Income Statement, specifically distinguishing between non-underlying and underlying profit.
and pages 94 to 96 Note 2, Underlying measures.
We performed a look back test for the adjustments made and ensured the utilisation of We focused on this area because IFRS does not define which items the provision was appropriate based on the original nature of the provision.
may be excluded from underlying operating profit and it therefore requires judgement around the justification for such exclusion.
We challenged any significant releases made in the year and obtained evidence to support Consistency in identifying and disclosing items to be excluded managements judgement around the basis of the release.
We found the accounting, in all from underlying operating profit is important to maintain material respects, to be in accordance with accounting standards and Group policies.
comparability of the results year on year.
In 2016, these costs related primarily to the outcome of the closing Balance Sheet review and were disclosed as exceptional and business restructuring activity, with provisions being recorded in the Balance Sheet.
In 2017, we have focused on how these costs unwind and the correct treatment of utilisation or release to ensure appropriate classification and disclosure through non-underlying or underlyingprofit.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc continued How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both Of the Groups 58 reporting units, we performed audits of complete financial individually and in aggregate on the Financial Statements as a whole.
information at 15 reporting units in the UK, Australia, Denmark and France.
At 12 US reporting units, we performed audit procedures on certain balances and Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the transactions typically including at least revenue and inventory which are areas Financial Statements as a whole as follows: of audit focus rather than an audit of their complete financial information.
In addition to the above, we performed analytical procedures on the remaining Group Financial Statements 31 reporting units to understand key balances and transactions in the year and performed additional procedures on any unusual balances identified.
How we determined it 5% of underlying profit before tax.
The Group is structured across four reported Sectors, being Advanced Rationale for Underlying profit before tax is defined on page 94.
Electronic Solutions, Aviation Services, Communications and Connectivity benchmark applied We believe that underlying profit before tax and Mission Systems.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of represents an appropriate metric for assessing the the 58 reporting units within these Sectors, comprising the Groups operating performance of the Group and provides us with a businesses and centralised functions.
The Advanced Electronic Solutions consistent year on year basis for determining Sector operates under an SSA which is required to carry on business with the materiality.
It is the amount reported by US Department of Defence.
The SSA places certain restrictions on access to, management both internally and externally to the and communication of, information outside of the US borders.
We also considered our overall Group our audit to ensure US personnel complete the audit work within the SSA.
materiality in the context of the Groups revenue, We maintained regular dialogue throughout the audit cycle with our US team, noting that it represents less than 0.4%.
including a face to face meeting at the planning stage to communicate, discuss and agree the audit plan.
We also supervised and reviewed the work performed In response to the level of historical adjustments through regular dialogue and reviewing their work papers.
We agreed the raised within inventory and contract balances, format and content of communications required.
There are seven reporting mainly impacting work in progress and sales units within the SSA that were included in our audit scope.
The reporting units reserves, we reduced materiality specifically for were subject to directed scope procedures, providing reporting to us on these two areas to 5.5m.
This level of materiality specified financial statement line items including revenue and contract work in was determined to reflect the level of historical progress, as well as specified procedures on other key areas such as manual adjustment for these balances in the prior year and journals and inventory counts.
We also performed specific procedures relating the continued heightened risk of misstatement.
84% of the Groups revenue is accounted for by reporting units where we Parent Company Financial Statements performed audits of their complete financial information or performed specific audit procedures over revenue.
45% of the Groups underlying profit before Overall materiality 39.7 million 2016: 35.0 million.
taxation is accounted for by the 15 reporting units where we performed audits How we determined it 1% of total assets.
of their complete financial information.
In combination with the other work referred to above, together with additional procedures performed at Group Rationale for benchmark We believe that total assets are an appropriate level, including testing of significant journals posted within the Sector and applied metric for assessing the Parent Company as it holds Group consolidations and significant adjustments made to the Financial the investments and derivative financial Statements, this gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the instruments of the Group.
We applied a lower materiality of 5m to certain Where the work was performed by component audit teams, we determined line items, account balances and disclosures that the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those were in scope for the audit of the Group Financial reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate evidence Statements.
had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole.
We have visited three territories covering ten in scope reporting units For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality during the year, being France, Denmark and the US.
We visited France at the that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated planning stage and met with local management.
We visited Denmark at year across components was between 1 million and 5 million.
end to perform a review of the teams work and meet local management.
We met with our US team twice, both at the planning stage to discuss and agree We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them the audit plan, and at year end to review their working papers.
We reviewed misstatements identified during our audit above 200,000 Group audit 2016: the working papers of our Australian team remotely at year end.
Finally, we 200,000 and 200,000 Parent Company audit 2016: 200,000 as well as met regularly with the key audit partner on six other reporting units in the misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting Communications and Connectivity Sector, who is based in the UK.
maintained regular dialogue with all component teams throughout the audit.
In addition, members of the Group team lead, or form part of, a number of significant component teams on the audit, including the two key reporting units with the aerial refuelling development and production contracts.
We attended clearance calls on all in scope components.
com 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Going concern Strategic Report and the Directors Report In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the Financial Statements and has Reporting obligation Outcome been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We are required to report if we have We have nothing material to add or to CA06 anything material to add or draw draw attention to.
However, because attention to in respect of the Directors not all future events or conditions can statement in the Financial Statements be predicted, this statement is not a In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company about whether the Directors guarantee as to the Groups and and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify considered it appropriate to adopt the Parent Companys ability to continue any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
going concern basis of accounting in as a going concern.
CA06 preparing the Financial Statements and the Directors identification of any The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal material uncertainties to the Groups risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: period of at least 12 months from the The Directors confirmation on page 53 of the Annual Report and Accounts date of approval of the Financial that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing Statements.
the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future We are required to report if the We have nothing to report.
performance, solvency or liquidity: Directors statement relating to going The disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts that describe those concern in accordance with Listing Rule risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with The Directors explanation on page 35 of the Annual Report and Accounts our knowledge obtained in the audit.
as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, Reporting on other information and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities and Accounts other than the Financial Statements and our auditors report as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, or assumptions.
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and there is a material misstatement of the Financial Statements or a material understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have obtained in the course of the audit.
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report Other Code Provisions based on these responsibilities.
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 61, that they consider the With respect to the Strategic Report and the Directors Report, we also Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members have been included.
to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing our audit: Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain The section of the Annual Report and Accounts on page 57 describing opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters otherwise stated.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee: The Directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Cobham plc continued Responsibilities for the Financial Statements Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by and the audit the Directors on 1 April 1974 to audit the Financial Statements for the year Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements ended 31 December 1974 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibility set out uninterrupted engagement is 44 years, covering the years ended 31 December on page 75, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial 1974 to 31 December 2017.
Statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Pauline Campbell In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for Senior Statutory Auditor assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going for and on behalf of  LLP concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to London liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have 1 March 2018 no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in ouropinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or The Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
com 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
