Independent auditors report to the members of Just Eat plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Summary of our audit approach Opinion Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current In our opinion: yearwere: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the The impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets at state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs the Australia & New Zealand ANZ and Mexican MEX asat 31 December 2017 and of the Groups loss for the cash-generating units CGUs and the subsequent year then ended: impairment of goodwill at the ANZ CGU: and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Tax uncertainties in relation to the ongoing Danish in accordance with International Financial Reporting transfer pricing investigation.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The key audit matter in respect of business combinations the Parent Company financial statements have been which was reported in the prior year is no longer assessed properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted asa key audit matter for the year ended 31 December 2017 bythe European Union and as applied in accordance with as there were no similar combinations.
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Materiality the financial statements have been prepared in accordance The materiality that we used for the Group financial with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as statements was 5.4 million which represents 5.2% of regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the theGroups pre-tax loss of 76.0 million adjusted for IASRegulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Just Eat plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group Scoping The most significant component of the Group is the UK which comprise: operation which accounts for 56% of revenue, 144% of the consolidated income statement: pre-tax profit before impairment charges and 1% of net the consolidated statement of other comprehensive assets.
The Group audit team directly performs the audit income: ofthe UK business.
the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets: Full scope audits were also performed for the French, Danish, the consolidated and Parent Company statements of Australia & New Zealand and SkipTheDishes operations for changes in equity: the year ended 31 December 2017 by component teams.
the consolidated and Parent Company cash flow These locations, along with consolidation adjustments and statements: and the UK holding companies, represent the principal business the related Notes 1 to 42, including the accounting policies.
units and account for 83% out of the 546.3 million of the Groups revenue, 96% out of 726.7 million of the Groups net The financial reporting framework that has been applied in assets and 101% out of 104.4 million of the Groups pre-tax their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by profit before impairment.
the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the Significant changes in our approach provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
A full scope audit was performed by a component team on the SkipTheDishes operations for the first time in 2017 Basis for opinion following the acquisition in 2016.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit ofthefinancial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 84 Financial statements Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement in Note 2 to the financial statements We confirm that we have nothing about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of material to report, add or draw accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties attention to in respect of to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least thesematters.
twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they We confirm that we have nothing were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, material to report, add or draw including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment attention to in respect of ofthe Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are thesematters.
required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention toinrelation to: the disclosures on pages 2227 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 22 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 23 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters As at 31 December 2017, the Group recognised goodwill of 544.9 million 2016: 725.2 million and intangible assets Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional of94.5 million 2016: 103.4 million.
judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the In 2017, an impairment of 180.4 million to goodwill has been most significant assessed risks of material misstatement recognised at the ANZ CGU as a result of challenges with whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These the operating platform, the operation of the two brands matters included those which had the greatest effect on: which are being merged and increased competition in the the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the marketplace.
Goodwill allocated to this CGU prior to impairment audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
was 451.6 million and intangible assets were 40.8 million.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit Consistent with prior periods, the Mexico CGU has been ofthe financial statements as a whole, and in forming our identified as having a potential risk of future impairment, due opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion to the significant growth required in the short-term forecasts on these matters.
before a long-term growth rate is applied, being eight years.
We note that there is a high degree of judgement in the The impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets at position and therefore potential for management bias as the the Australia & New Zealand and Mexican cash generating forecasts are sensitive to change.
Goodwill allocated to this units and the subsequent impairment of goodwill at the CGU is 19.6 million and intangible assets of 1.2 million.
Australia & New Zealand Cash Generating Unit The key assumptions applied by the Directors in the Key audit matter description impairment reviews are: As described in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 58, short and medium-term growth rates which are based and Notes 12 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements, onmanagement budgets: determining whether the carrying value of goodwill and the terminal growth rate which is based on long term intangible assets is recoverable remains a key judgement.
inflation forecasts: and country specific discount rates.
com 85 Independent auditors report continued How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter The Group has assessed the relevant legislation, regulations In order to address this key audit matter we audited the and compliance obligations and disagrees with the assessment assumptions used in the ANZ and MEX impairment models.
issued and has made a local appeal against it.
In addition, the As part of our work, we: Group has filed a Mutual Agreement Procedure MAP application through which the UK and Danish tax authorities checked the mechanical accuracy of the underlying will negotiate an agreement.
Determination of the tax provision valuation models: is subject to inherent judgement and therefore also potential agreed the key assumptions to the Board approved budgets: bias by management, in assessing the probable outflow of taxes that will be borne by the entity relating to this matter understood and challenged whether the cash flows are where the appeal process is ongoing.
compliant with IAS 36 requirements by comparing the individual components to this standard, in particular the The Groups accounting policy on taxation is on page 105 exclusion of any new revenue streams: and the critical accounting judgements and key sources of challenged sensitivity analysis run by management estimation uncertainty on page 95. through comparison to recent performance in that CGU How the scope of our audit responded to the key and over the last three years and other CGUs with auditmatter : We have performed the following procedures to address this sought input from our valuation specialists to assess the key audit matter: country-specific WACC rate calculations and long-term inspected the latest correspondence between the Group growth rates, by testing the inputs to the calculation to and the Danish tax authorities: external sources and macro-economic data: read and assessed the opinions management has obtained assessed and challenged managements forecasting in relation to uncertain tax positions, in order to verify through comparison against other markets, growth pattern whether the position reached in challenging the of established markets and external data on the wider assessment is consistent: market e. g. competition : and engaged our tax specialists, both in the UK and Denmark, for the ANZ impairment, sought input from our valuation to challenge the estimates and judgements used when specialists to assess the fair value less costs of disposal calculating the associated provision, based on our FVLCD calculation and understood and challenged knowledge of tax law: thedifferences between the value in use VIU and FVLCD models.
reviewed and challenged the reports of managements experts, and how these have been utilised in estimating We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures the provision: and in respect of the impairment at ANZ and whether the sensitivity disclosures provided for both ANZ and MEX, assessed and challenged the level of provision, in light represent reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
ofthe final notice of assessment, and the basis of the provision calculation.
Key observations We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosure We have assessed the impairment calculations for goodwill and intangible assets for ANZ and MEX and are satisfied that of the tax provision both in Note 10 as well as the related accounting policy and key source of estimation uncertainty.
the assumptions applied within the models are reasonable.
We consider that the disclosures appropriately reflect the Key observations impairment charge for ANZ and the sensitivities for both The results of our audit work were satisfactory and we ANZ and MEX.
concur that the total level of provision is within an acceptable range, based on the information currently available and the Tax uncertainties in relation to the ongoing Danish transfer opinions received by managements experts.
We consider the pricing investigation disclosures made to be reflective of managements assessment and in line with appropriate accounting standards.
Key audit matter description The total provision against uncertain tax positions in the current year is 17.4 million 2016: 9.8 million.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in Our key audit matter is focused on the element of the provision relating to an ongoing transfer pricing investigation the financial statements that make it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person by the Danish tax authorities, where there is significant judgement and potential exposure of up to 126.0 million.
would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the As set out in Note 10 and the Report of the Audit Committee results of our work.
on page 58, a local transfer pricing audit was performed by the Danish Tax Authorities, resulting in a formal notice of assessment being issued in January 2018.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 86 Financial statements Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality 5.4 million 2016: 4.0 million 2.2 million 2016: 2.0 million Basis for determining 5.2% of pre-tax profit before impairment Materiality was determined on the basis of the materiality of104.4 million.
This was then capped at 40% of Group materiality.
Pre-tax profit has been adjusted for This materiality equates to 0.4% of net assets.
impairment to exclude the effect of non-recurring charges.
The increase in materiality reflects the increase in the size and scale of the Group.
The benchmark in the prior year was unadjusted pre-tax profit.
Rationale for the In determining our final materiality based Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it benchmark applied onour professional judgement, we have is considered the most relevant benchmark for considered a number of benchmarks or investors and is a key driver of shareholder value.
financial indicators including the final loss before tax figure of 76.0 million, revenue, the growth history of the business, exceptional items and other gains or losses.
Profit before tax is a key performance indicator for users of the financial statements and key stakeholders to measure the performance of the Group.
The materiality applied represents 1% ofrevenue and 0.7% of equity.
Profit before tax before impairment charges 104.4 million Group materiality 5.4 million Component materiality range 0.6 million to 4.3 million Audit Committee reporting PBT before impairment charges threshold 0.27 million Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would Full scope audits were also performed for the French, Danish, reportto the Committee all audit differences in excess Australia & New Zealand and SkipTheDishes operations for of0.27 million 2016: 0.2 million for the Group and the year ended 31 December 2017 by component teams 0.1million 2016: 0.1 million for the Parent Company, as under the direction and supervision of the Group audit team.
well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, In addition, Ireland, Canada, Spain and Italy were subject to a warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report limited scope audit of specific account transactions and to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we account balances by the Group audit team.
They were identified when assessing the overall presentation of the selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking financial statements.
audit work to address the risks of material misstatement.
These locations, along with the consolidation adjustments An overview of the scope of our audit and UK holding companies represent the principal business Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding units and account for 530.5 million out of the 546.3 million of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide of the Groups revenue, 104.9 million profit out of 104.4 million controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the Groups pre-tax profit before impairment charges and atthe Group level.
717.9 million out of 726.7 million of the Groups net assets.
The most significant component of the Group is the UK At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation operation, which accounts for 56% of revenue 2016: 63%, process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our 144%of pre-tax profit before impairment charges conclusion that there were no significant risks of material 2016: 112% and 1% of net assets 2016: -2%.
The Group misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the audit team performs the audit of the UK trading business remaining components not subject to audit or audit of and holding companies directly.
com 87 Independent auditors report continued An overview of the scope of our audit continued In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially Pre-tax profit Revenue before impairment Net assets inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge m m m obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materiallymisstated.
Full audit 455 105 701 Limited scope If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent procedures 75 0 17 material misstatements, we are required to determine whether Out of scope 16 1 9 there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
Our audit work was executed at levels of materiality applicable If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that to each individual entity which were lower than Group there is a material misstatement of this other information, materiality and ranged from 0.6 million to 4.3 million we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to We have maintained close supervision with component report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the auditors throughout the audit process.
Planning meetings other information include where we conclude that: were held with all significant component teams prior to the commencement of the audit.
The purpose of this planning Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given meeting was to ensure sufficient level of understanding of by the Directors that they consider the annual report and the Groups business and a discussion of the significant risks financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and and planned audit approach.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and We have followed a programme of planned visits that has performance, business model and strategy, is materially been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or team visits each of the significant locations where the Group Audit committee reporting the section describing the scope was focused at least once every two years, and the work of the audit committee does not appropriately most significant of them at least once a year.
address matters communicated by us to the audit During 2017, we have visited the Australian and SkipTheDishes committee: or operations and performed alternative procedures as set out Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate above for the French and Danish components.
The French, Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement Danish and Australian components were also visited in 2016. required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys The audit visits were timed to enable us to be involved in the compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code completion of detailed audit procedures as well as attending containing provisions specified for review by the auditor key meetings with component management and auditors.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK In addition to our planned visits, we send detailed instructions Corporate Governance Code.
to our component audit teams, include them in our team We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
briefings and perform detailed reviews of the significant work papers.
We maintain close communication throughout Responsibilities of Directors the audit period and attend component close meetings to discuss all significant findings raised with financial management As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities representatives from both Group and the components.
statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they Other information give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation The Directors are responsible for the other information.
of financial statements that are free from material Theother information comprises the information included misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
inthe annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, other information and, except to the extent otherwise matters related to going concern and using the going concern explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to ofassurance conclusion thereon.
liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 88 Financial statements Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to whether the financial statements as a whole are free from you if, in our opinion: material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable we have not received all the information and explanations assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee we require for our audit: or that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will adequate accounting records have not been kept by the always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered not been received from branches not visited by us: or material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably the Parent Company financial statements are not in be expected to influence the economic decisions of users agreement with the accounting records and returns.
taken on the basis of these financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of Directors remuneration the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to Councils website at: www.
report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors This description forms part of our auditors report.
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in Use of our report agreement with the accounting records and returns.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
asabody, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Other matters so that we might state to the Companys members those Auditor tenure matters we are required to state to them in an auditors We were appointed by the Directors on 22 January 2010 and report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent confirmed at the subsequent Board meeting to audit the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 to anyone other than the Company and the Companys and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and forthe opinions we have formed.
reappointments of the firm is nine years, covering the years ended 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2017.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Consistency of the audit report with the additional report Opinions on other matters prescribed tothe audit committee by the Companies Act 2006 Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report tothe audit committee we are required to provide in to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with accordance with ISAs UK.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Anna Marks FCA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP the information given in the strategic report and the Statutory Auditor Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with Reading, United Kingdom thefinancial statements: and 5 March 2018 the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
