O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and the Group and parent Company financial statements records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent inaccordance with applicable law and regulations.
Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply parent Company financial statements for each financial with the Companies Act 2006.
They are responsible for such year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the  in accordance with International preparation of financial statements that are free from material Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial tothem to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent statements in accordance with UK accounting standards, and detect fraud and other irregularities.
including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Under company law the Directors must not approve the responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and the Directors are required to: integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing select suitable accounting policies and then apply thepreparation and dissemination of financial statements them consistently: maydiffer from legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant, reliable and prudent: Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect oftheannual financial report for the Group financial statements, state whether they have We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or subject to any material departures disclosed and explained loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the in the parent company financial statements: consolidation taken as a whole: and assess the Group and parent Companys ability to continue the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related development and performance of the business and the to going concern: and position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board, 6 March 2018.
Ken Hanna Chris Weston Chairman Chief Executive Office AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 103 FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Independent auditors report 105 Group income statement 110 Group statement of comprehensive income 110 Group balance sheet 111 Group cash flow statement 112 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 113 Group statement of changes in equity 114 Notes to the Group accounts 116 Company balance sheet 154 Company statement of comprehensive income 155 Company statement of changes in equity 156 Notes to the Company accounts 157 Shareholder information 161 Definition and calculation of non GAAP measures 162 Financial summary 164 104 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF AGGREKO PLC A SUMMARY OF OUR APPROACH 1 Our opinion isunmodified A SUMMARY OF OUR APPROACH We have audited the financial statements of Aggreko Plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Group Income Statement, Group Statement ofComprehensive Income, Group Balance Sheet, Group 1 Cash Flow Statement, Group Statement of Changes in Equity, andthe related Notes, including the accounting policies in Full audit coverage Note 1 and the Company Balance Sheet, Company Statement of Comprehensive Income, Company Statement of Changes 94% of PBT inEquity and the related Notes, including the accounting policies in Note 32.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as 2 at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Materiality the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 5% of PBT Standards as adopted by the European Union: before exceptionals the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and 3 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Key audit matters with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the recoverability of certain IAS Regulation.
PS Utility receivables Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International and tax provisioning Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
1 We were appointed as auditor by the Shareholders on 27 April2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement Our audit covered 94% of the Groups profit before tax is for the two financial years ended 31 December 2017. and exceptionals and was carried out in Glasgow, We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we Dubai, Russia, Argentina, Houston and Brazil.
remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as 2 applied tolisted public interest entities.
No non-audit services Overall Group materiality: 9.8 million which represents prohibited by that standard were provided.
5% of profit before tax this year before exceptional items.
2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks 3 ofmaterial misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional The recoverability of certain Power Solutions Utility judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the receivablesand the tax provisions provisioning financial statements and include the most significant assessed inoverseaslocations are the key audit matters risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud giventhejudgements involved in these areas.
identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 105 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED THE RISK OUR APPROACH Recoverability of consolidated Power Solutions Utility overdue receivables and accrued income in respect of certain countries including Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Benin and Venezuela Refer to page 69 Audit Committee Report, page 121 accounting policy and page 132 financial disclosures Certain customers of the Power Solutions Our procedures included: Utility business operate in territories Our sector experience: Using our sector experience, assessing and challenging with volatile regimes and adverse macro the Directors judgement as to the likely recoverable amount of the receivables, economic conditions where the risk of which includes seeking evidence of the status of receivables from the latest customer default the customer often communications with the relevant customer including deposits and guarantees being the government is high.
In these where available, considering the Groups previous experience of recovery and our territories, cash receipts are volatile and knowledge of in-country exposures: unpredictable due to factors such as Tests of details: Assessing post year end debt collection by vouching receipts to regime change and economic stress, supporting documentation and considering evidence of planned payments: and resulting in significant judgement being applied in the Groups assessment of the Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about recoverability of receivables both trade the degree of estimation involved.
receivables and accrued income from Our results customers in these territories.
We found the carrying value of the trade receivables noted opposite to be We note this risk is in relation to certain acceptable 2016: acceptable.
PSU debtors such as Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Benin and Venezuela, those being the receivables that we consider give rise to our key audit matter.
Consolidated and parent Company taxation provisions for significant potential or contentious tax assessments, in particular inrelation to the ongoing dispute in relation to a tax assessment in Bangladesh 31 million, 2016: 39 million : Refer to page 69 Audit Committee Report, page 121 accounting policy and page 127 financial disclosures Provision for tax contingencies require Our procedures included: the Directors to make judgements Our tax expertise: Assessing, together with our own international and local and estimates in relation to tax risks tax specialists, the Groups tax positions including specifically the ongoing tax in particular in relation to the ongoing assessments including Bangladesh, inspecting relevant correspondence with dispute in relation to a tax assessment in the relevant tax authorities and legal opinions and analysing and challenging the Bangladesh.
This is highly judgemental judgement about the likely conclusions used to determine tax provisions based due to the Group operating in a various on our knowledge and experience of the application of the international and local tax jurisdictions and the complexities legislation by the relevant authorities and courts: and and uncertainties of local and Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in international tax legislation.
respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
The tax matters are at various stages, Our results from preliminary discussions with tax We found the level of tax provisioning in the Group and Company to be acceptable authorities through to tax tribunal or 2016: acceptable.
court proceedings where the matters can take many years to resolve.
The risk to the financial statements is that the eventual resolution of a matter with tax authorities is at an amount materially different to the accrual.
106 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION SCOPING OF OUR AUDIT 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The components within the scope of our work accounted Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole for the percentages illustrated below: was set at 9.8 million 2016: 11 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised % Revenue to exclude exceptional items disclosed in the Group Income % 1 Statement and Note 7, of which it represents 5% 2016: 5%.
1 Sp ecific risk focused audit 3 We consider profit before tax before exceptional items to procedures over revenue 0 be the most appropriate benchmark because it excludes 2 Full audit 77 the non-recurring impact of exceptional items such as reorganisation costs and impairment charges and therefore 3 Scoped out of our audit 23 produces a more stable benchmark than profit before tax.
The Group team performed procedures on the items 2 excludedfrom Group profit before tax excluding exceptional items.
Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 7 million 2016: 8 million based on component materiality, determined with reference to net % Profit before tax % assets.
This is lower than we would otherwise have determined 1 3 with reference to a benchmark of Company net assets, and 1 Sp ecific risk focused audit represents 1.4% 2016: 1.6% of this benchmark.
procedures over revenue 1 2 Full audit 94 We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected oruncorrected misstatements identified exceeding 500,000, 3 Scoped out of our audit 5 inaddition to any other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This level was selected and agreed with the Audit Committee as, given the 2 nature and scale of operations, adjustments under this level were not deemed to be of specific interest to them.
Net assets The Group audit team instructed component auditors % inDubai, Argentina, Brazil and Russia as to the significant 1 3 1 Sp ecific risk focused audit areasto be covered, and the information to be reported back.
procedures over revenue 1 The Group team completed audit work on components in Dubai, the US and UK including the parent Company.
2 Full audit 92 The Group audit team approved the component materialities, 3 Scoped out of our audit 7 which ranged from 10,000 to 7 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The components not included were not individually financially 2 significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes, and did not present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The remaining 23% of total Group revenue, 5% of Group profit before tax and 7% of total Group assets is represented The Group audit team visited the component location in by a number of reporting components, none of which Dubaito participate in the planning meeting and assess individually represented more than 4% of any of total theaudit risk and strategy.
Telephone calls were also held Grouprevenue, Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
with the component auditors in Argentina, Brazil and Russia.
On these calls, the audit risks and strategy were discussed, thefindings from the audit reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor as relevant.
The Group team remotelyevaluated the work completed by the team inBrazil, Argentina, Dubai and Russia.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 107
