INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Rotork plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: The consolidated income statement: The consolidated statement of comprehensive income: The consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets: The consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity: The consolidated statement of cash flows: The statement of accounting policies: and The related notes 1 to 30 and a to i.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Discount factors and growth rates utilised in managements assessment of impairment of goodwill and intangibles, specifically in relation to Bifold: and Inflation and discount rate assumptions used in defined benefit pension scheme valuations.
These key audit matters are consistent with the prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 5m which was determined on the basis of adjusted profit before tax.
Scoping Based on our assessment, we identified 19 components which, in our view, required a full scope audit of their financial information in order to ensure that sufficient appropriate audit evidence was obtained, with Europe, North America and China being the largest regions.
Our full scope covered 72% of the Groups revenues 2016: 76% and 86% of profit before tax 2016: 87%.
Significant changes in our Last year our report included a key audit matter in respect of manual adjustments to inventory provisions and approach profit in inventory, which is not included in our report this year.
We concluded that these areas did not represent a significant risk of material misstatement in the current year based on the work performed in prior periods, the consistent approach to accounting for these items, and the fact that the manual adjustments to provisions and the profit in inventory adjustment have been stable year on year.
No new key audit matters have been identified in the current year.
R RO OT TO OR RK A K AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 17 7 88 88 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether they considered it nothing material to report, appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any add or draw attention to in material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve respect of these matters.
months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the nothing material to report, knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the add or draw attention to in directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to respect of these matters.
state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: The disclosures on pages 22 to 25 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: The directors confirmation on page 25 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or The directors explanation on page 25 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
R RO OT TO OR RK A K AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 17 7 89 89 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC CONTINUED These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Discount factors and growth rates utilised in managements assessment of impairment of goodwill and intangibles, specifically in relation to the Bifold CGU Key audit matter Refer to the Audit Committee Report, note 1 Accounting policies, note 10 Goodwill and note 11 Intangible description assets.
Management is required to assess the carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangibles, and perform an impairment review under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets on an annual basis and whenever an indication of impairment exists.
The key audit matter identified in relation to the impairment review is focused on the discount factors and future growth rate assumptions used to support the carrying value of goodwill in the Bifold CGU.
As disclosed in note 10, the carrying value of goodwill in relation to Bifold is 47.5m 2016: 67.2m which reflects a goodwill impairment charge of 19.7m.
Due to the high level of judgement involved, we have determined that there was a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of this balance.
How the scope of our audit We performed the following procedures to address this risk.
We have: responded to the key audit Challenged the reasonableness of forecast growth with reference to recent performance and external market matter data and checked that the forecast for 2018 was consistent with the Board approved budget: Visited the Bifold operations and made enquiries of Bifold management in relation to the current performance of the business and the growth assumptions in the forecasts: Obtained and reviewed a detailed Management impairment paper which had been considered and approved by the Board: Performed a specific review and challenge, involving our own internal valuations specialists, of the discount rate applied with reference to market data: Recalculated managements sensitivity analysis on key assumptions and replaced key assumptions with alternative scenarios e. g. future growth rates based on external market data: and Considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the impairment recognised and sensitivity of the Bifold CGU to changes in the key assumptions.
Key observations From the work performed, we are satisfied that the impairment charge is based on a reasonable and balanced assessment of the range of possible outcomes for the future growth, profitability and cash generation of the Bifold business.
Inflation and discount rate assumptions used in defined benefit pension liability valuation Key audit matter Refer to the Audit Committee Report, note 1 Accounting policies and note 24 Pension schemes.
description The Group has a net defined benefit pension liability of 48.2m gross liabilities of 237.1m at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: 58.5m net liability and 236.5m gross liabilities.
There is a risk of material misstatement relating to judgements made in valuing the defined benefit pension scheme liabilities as small changes in the key model input assumptions such as the discount rate and inflation rate can have a significant impact on the valuation of the liability.
We have: responded to the key audit Utilised our Pensions Analytic tool to challenge the appropriateness of the inflation and discount rate matter assumptions used in respect of the UK scheme and engaged Deloitte actuarial specialists to consider and challenge the assumptions in respect of the US scheme: Challenged management to understand the sensitivity of changes in assumptions and quantify a range of reasonable rates that could be used in their calculation with reference to comparator company and market data as at 31 December 2017: and We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficit to changes in these key assumptions.
Key observations From the work performed we are satisfied that the key inflation and discount rate assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme liability are within a reasonable range.
R RO OT TO OR RK A K AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 17 7 90 90 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 5.0m 2016: 4.6m 2.8m 2016: 3.6m Basis for determining Materiality was determined as 5.3% of adjusted profit 2% of net assets, capped at component materiality.
materiality before tax which was determined on the basis of profit before tax adjusted to exclude the impact of the Bifold goodwill impairment charge, release of contingent consideration and restructuring costs 2016: 5% of statutory profit before tax.
Rationale for the Adjusted profit before tax reflects the manner in which Net assets are considered to be an appropriate benchmark applied business performance is reported and assessed by benchmark for the Company given that it is mainly a external users of the financial statements.
A set percentage of Group materiality adopted this measure in the current year as it provides a was applied to the Company based upon the scoping of consistent year on year basis for determining materiality.
components, assessing the risk within the Company compared to others within the Group.
PBT adjusted for material non-recurring items 93.9m Group materiality 5m PBT adjusted for Component materiality range 2m to 2.8m material non-recurring items Group materiality Audit committee reporting threshold 0.25m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 250,000 2016: 229,000 for the Group and 100,000 2016: 182,000 for the Parent Company, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at a group level.
Our approach was consistent with that adopted in the prior year.
Based on that assessment, we focused our group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 19 components, which were subject to a full scope audit.
Revenue Profit before tax 28% 14% 72% 86% Full audit scope Full audit scope Review at group level Review at group level The 19 locations represent the principal business units within the Groups four reportable segments across 11 countries and account for 72% of the Groups revenues 2016: 76%, 86% of profit before tax 2016: 87%.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at these locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality ranging from 2.0m to 2.8m.
The Parent Company is located in Bath and audited directly by the group audit team.
R RO OT TO OR RK A K AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 17 7 91 91 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK PLC CONTINUED Five components that were in full scope audit and two components that were subject to specified audit procedures in 2016, have been subject to review at the Group level in the current year, which is consistent with the remaining entities in the Group.
Due to the significance to the group audit of the 19 components operations subject to full scope audits, a programme has been designed and implemented for senior members of the group audit team to visit the key components where the group audit scope was focused at least once every three years.
As part of the 2017 audit, senior members of the group audit team visited key components in the UK, USA, China, Italy and Spain.
For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the group audit team also discusses audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviews relevant audit working papers.
For the remaining locations where full scope audits were completed, we discuss audit findings with the relevant component audit team, review audit working papers in relation to key issues and discuss key matters with component management where considered necessary in forming our group audit opinion.
At the parent entity level, we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining 46 components not subject to full scope audit.
None of these components represented more than 3% of revenue or profit before taxation individually.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included We have nothing to report in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
R RO OT TO OR RK A K AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 17 7 92 92 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and The Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: in respect of these matters.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors in respect of these matters.
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 2 June 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is four years, covering the years ending 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
NIGEL THOMAS SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 5 March 2018 R RO OT TO OR RK A K AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 17 7 93 93
