OTHER INFORMATION Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 183 Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc When planning our audit, we made an assessment of the relative 1 Our opinion is unmodified significance of the key risks of material misstatement to the We have audited the financial statements of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Group financial statements, initially without taking account of the the parent Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which effectiveness of controls implemented by the Group.
This initial comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated assessment is shown below in the output from our Dynamic Audit Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance planning tool.
Of the 20 key risks identified, we consider nine Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated those in dark blue on the risk map to be key audit matters.
Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes, including There have been a number of changes since last year: the accounting policies in Note 1, and the Company Balance Sheet, Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes, During the year, the Group acquired the 53.1% of Industria including the accounting policies in Note 1. fide Turbo Propulsores SA ITP Aero that it did not already own and the risks relating to the remeasurement of the interest In our opinion: already owned to fair value, the risks relating to the identification the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state and measurement at fair value of the acquired intangible assets of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at and the consequent recognition of a bargain purchase gain 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year are key risks and a key audit matter this year.
then ended: The Group will adopt IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in customers with effect from 2018 and is disclosing the impact accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as in these financial statements for the first time.
The risks that the adopted by the European Union: Group has not developed policies in line with the new standard, that not all material areas of potential change have been the parent Company financial statements have been properly identified and that the policies have not been applied prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including appropriately are key risks and a key audit matter this year.
FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and The Group entered into deferred prosecution and leniency the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with agreements in connection with alleged bribery and corruption the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards in overseas territories in January 2017.
If the Group were found the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
to have failed to fulfil its responsibilities under the deferred prosecution agreements it would risk prosecution and this Basis for opinion would require disclosure in the financial statements.
The key We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards risk identified last year relating to bribery and corruption has on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities been subsumed into a broader key risk which is also a key audit are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have matter relating to the omission of such disclosure.
In addition, obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our the key risk identified last year relating to the disclosure of the audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
consequences of the investigations is no longer considered We were appointed as auditor by the directors for the year ending to be a key risk.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement Over recent years, the Group has reduced the level of asset is for the 28 financial years ended 31 December 2017.
This is my value support provided to customers though it continues to fifth year as Senior Statutory Auditor.
We have fulfilled our ethical provide standby credit lines to customers and we assessed the responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group risk of material misstatement to have reduced to such an extent in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC that this key risk is no longer a key audit matter.
Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Apart from this, the key risks are the same as in the previous year.
Finally, following changes to auditing standards, we have included 2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks a key audit matter relating to the recoverability of the parent of material misstatement Companys investment in its subsidiaries.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the audit team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and our findings from those procedures in order that the Companys members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
These matters were addressed, and our findings are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 184 Independent Auditors Report Dynamic Audit planning tool A Th e pressure on and incentives K Meas urement of revenue and for management to meet revenue, profit on long-term contracts Relative significance of audit risks before taking account of controls profit and cash targets outside the Civil Aerospace business see pages 124 and 125 B Th e basis of accounting for revenue and profit in the L fide termination of development C Civil Aerospace business costs to be capitalised see page 124 C Th e measurement of E B A revenue and profit in the M Th e basis of accounting for G Civil Aerospace business contractual aftermarket rights see page 122 D R ecoverability of intangible assets Q in the Civil Aerospace business N fide termination of the amortisation D period of development costs H E Consequen ces of deferred and contractual aftermarket L I F prosecution and leniency rights see pages 128 and 129 R agreements in connection with S alleged bribery and corruption O Th e basis of accounting for K J in overseas markets Risk and Revenue Sharing T Arrangements see pages 123 M P F Th e presentation of and 124 underlying profit P Estim ating provisions for N O G Di sclosure of the effect on the warranties and guarantees trend in profit of items which are see page 125 uneven in frequency or amount Likelihood of material misstatement Q V aluation of derivatives and H Gains r esulting from the hedge accounting see pages 127 acquisition of a controlling and 128 interest in Industria fide Turbo Propulsores SA R Meas urements of post-retirement benefits see page 125 I Di sclosure of the impact of adopting IFRS 15 S A ccounting for uncertain tax positions and deferred tax assets J Li abilities arising from sales see page 125 financing arrangements T see page 130 Valuation of goodwill see page 124 A The pressure on and incentives for management to meet Test of details: Compared the results to forecasts, guidance and revenue, profit and cash targets targets, and challenged variances at a much lower level than we would otherwise have done based on our understanding Refer to pages 21 to 41 Business review and pages 99 and 100 of factors affecting business performance with corroboration Audit Committee report Financial reporting using external data where possible: The risk Subjective estimates The continuing pressure on and Our sector experience: Applied an increased level of scepticism incentives for management to meet targets increases the inherent throughout the audit by increasing the involvement of the senior risk of manipulation of the Group financial statements.
The financial audit team personnel, with particular focus on audit procedures results are sensitive to significant estimates and judgements, designed to assess whether revenues and costs have been particularly in respect of revenues and costs associated with recognised in the correct accounting period, whether central long-term contracts, and there is a broad range of acceptable adjustments were appropriate and whether the segmental outcomes of these that could lead to different levels of profit analysis has been properly prepared.
In particular: and revenue being reported in the financial statements.
Relatively small changes in the basis of those judgements and estimates could when considering the risk relating to The measurement of C result in the Group meeting, exceeding or falling short of forecasts, revenue and profit in the Civil Aerospace business refer guidance or targets.
The Groups incentive schemes include targets to pages 185 and 186, we challenged the basis for changes related to profit and to cash generation.
in the estimated revenues and costs in long-term contracts, with a heightened awareness of the possibility of unconscious The significance of this risk increased somewhat during the year or systematic bias with particular emphasis on the treatment as 1 the Group has been impacted by the increasing cost and of the additional costs estimated to have to be incurred as a challenge of managing significant in-service engine issues on the consequence of the in-service engine issues on the Trent 1000 Trent 1000 and Trent 900 programmes and so there could be and Trent 900 programmes: motivation to overstate financial performance to downplay the impact of these on the Group and 2 there have been significant when considering the risk relating to Recoverability of D changes in the Executive Leadership Team in the last year and so intangible assets in the Civil Aerospace business refer there could be motivation to establish credibility.
to pages 186 and 187, we challenged, with a heightened awareness of the possibility of unconscious or systematic bias, Our response Our procedures included: the basis of cost estimates in particular those relating to the development of the Trent 900 modifications required to give Personnel interviews: We have made specific enquiries designed improvements to time on wing and fuel burn: and to assess whether judgements and estimates exhibited unconscious bias or whether management had taken systematic Assessing transparency: When considering the risk relating actions to manipulate the reported results and whether sector F to The presentation of underlying profit refer to pages 188 management received instruction from Group to make changes and 189 and the risk relating to Disclosure of the effect on the in estimates that failed to consider appropriately all relevant trend in profit of items which are uneven in frequency or amount information in determining the estimate: Potential impact on financial statements OTHER INFORMATION Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 185 Independent Auditors Report G C refer to pages 189 and 190, we sought to identify items that The measurement of revenue and profit in the Civil Aerospace affected profit and or the trend in profit unevenly in frequency business or amount especially those where management had a greater Refer to pages 122 and 123 Key areas of judgement degree of discretion over the timing or scale of transactions Measurement of performance on long-term aftermarket contracts, entered into at a much lower level than we would otherwise page 126 Significant accounting policies Revenue recognition have done and to assess the balance and transparency of and TotalCare arrangements and pages 99 and 100 disclosure of these items.
Audit Committee report Financial reporting Our findings Our testing did not identify any indication of The risk Subjective estimates The amount of revenue and profit manipulation of results 2016 audit finding: none.
We found the recognised in a year on the sale of engines and on aftermarket degree of caution optimism adopted in estimates to be balanced services is dependent, inter alia, on the assessment of the overall 2016 audit finding: balanced.
We found that there was percentage of completion of long-term aftermarket contracts ample unbiased disclosure of items affecting the trend in profit.
and the forecast cost profile of each arrangement.
As long-term B The basis of accounting for revenue and profit in the aftermarket contracts can typically span 15-25 years and the Civil Aerospace business profitability of these arrangements typically assumes substantial life-cycle cost improvement over the term of the contracts, the Refer to pages 122 and 123 Key areas of judgement Introduction, estimated outturn requires significant judgement to be applied Contractual aftermarket rights, Linkage of OE and long-term in estimating future engine flying hours, time on wing and other aftermarket contracts, page 126 Significant accounting policies operating parameters, the pattern of future maintenance activity Revenue recognition and pages 99 and 100 Audit Committee and the costs to be incurred.
In addition unanticipated technical report Financial reporting issues can emerge without prior indication and add many hundreds of millions of pounds to future cost estimates.
The risk Accounting treatment The amount of revenue and profit recognised in a year on the sale of engines and aftermarket services The nature of these estimates means that their continual refinement is dependent, inter alia, on the appropriate assessment of whether can have an impact on the profits of the Civil Aerospace business or not each long-term aftermarket contract for services is linked that can be significant in an individual financial year and the range of to or separate from the contract for sale of the related engines as acceptable of judgements are such that the cumulative profit to date this drives the accounting basis to be applied.
As the commercial on the programs could vary by some hundreds of millions of pounds.
arrangements can be complex, significant judgement is applied in selecting the accounting basis in each case.
The most significant risk The Group has experienced significant in-service engine issues is that the Group might inappropriately account for sales of engines on both the Trent 1000 and Trent 900 programmes.
Assessing the and long-term service agreements as a single arrangement as this estimated cost of managing these issues, assessing which costs relate would usually lead to revenue and profit being recognised too early to long-term aftermarket contracts and which are development because the margin in the long-term service agreement is usually costs and assessing the extent to which the proposed engineering higher than the margin in the engine sale agreement.
solutions will improve engine performance are all significant judgements which have a significant effect on profit recognition.
The significance of the risk increased during the year as more engines were delivered this year.
As a consequence of these in-service engine issues, the significance of the risk has increased significantly during the year.
Our response Our procedures included: Our response Our procedures included: Accounting analysis: We evaluated the appropriateness of the accounting bases the Group applies in the Civil Aerospace Controls: We tested the controls designed and applied by the business by reference to accounting standards focusing on Group to provide assurance that the estimates used in assessing the substance of the transactions.
revenue and cost profiles are appropriate and that the resulting estimated cumulative profit on these contracts is accurately Assessing transparency: We considered whether the disclosure reflected in the financial statements: these controls operated included in the financial statements enables shareholders to over both the inputs and the outputs of the calculations.
understand how the accounting policies represent the commercial substance of the Groups contracts with its customers.
Historical comparisons and our sector knowledge: We challenged the appropriateness of these estimates for each Testing application: We made our own independent assessment, programme and assessed whether or not the estimates indicated with reference to the relevant accounting standards, of the any evidence of systematic or unconscious management bias in accounting basis that should be applied to each long-term the context of the heightened pressure on and incentives for aftermarket contract entered into during the year and compared management to meet forecasts, guidance and targets discussed this to the accounting basis applied by the Group.
Our challenge was based on our assessment of the historical accuracy of the Groups estimates in previous periods Our findings We found that the Group has developed a in relation to both cost and revenue forecasts, identification and framework for selecting the accounting bases which is consistent analysis of changes in assumptions from prior periods and an with a balanced interpretation of accounting standards and has assessment of the consistency of assumptions within programmes applied this consistently 2016 audit finding: balanced.
We found as well as with our sector experience.
that the disclosure was ample 2016 audit finding: ample.
For the agreements entered into during this year, it was clear which accounting basis should apply.
Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 186 Independent Auditors Report Our analysis of forecast revenues considered each significant indicators of heightened risk over forecast revenue assumptions airframe that is powered by the Groups engines.
We developed by considering the recent hours flown by customers, with a expectations of changes which were based on discussions particular focus on older fleets.
with commercial and operational management and our own Personnel interviews: We interviewed a wide range of financial experience, supplemented by discussions with an aircraft and operational personnel to identify any factors that should be valuation specialist engaged by the Group.
We assessed whether taken into account in our analysis.
In all cases we corroborated the valuation specialist was objective and suitably qualified.
managements explanations, including changes in assumptions, Our analysis of forecast costs considered costs on both a and evaluated these relative to our own analysis.
We assessed  basis and on a cross-programme basis.
whether there were any indicators of bias in the explanations We undertook detailed assessments of the achievability of the provided to us by management.
Groups plans to reduce life-cycle costs and an analysis of the Our findings We focused our controls testing on controls that we impact of these plans on forecast cost profiles taking account assessed as likely to provide effective audit evidence, largely those of the impact of known technical issues on cost forecasts.
We relating to revenue estimates.
We also considered the operation of compared future cost assumptions to those adopted in the prior other controls in order to provide relevant comment to management year and sought explanations for these movements from financial and the Audit Committee.
We found that the remediation of control and operational management, corroborating to appropriate weaknesses identified in earlier periods had been consolidated.
We focused on the estimates of costs scope and depth of our detailed testing and analysis was expanded expected to be incurred to respond to the in-service engine to take account of the remaining control weaknesses.
issues on the Trent 1000 and Trent 900 programmes.
We found that the in-service issues on the Trent 1000 and Trent We considered the nature of the causes of the in-service 900 programmes largely related to a shorter than expected life engine issues on the Trent 1000 and Trent 900 programmes of turbine blades.
We therefore consider that the short-term costs and challenged management on its assessment of the extent to of monitoring the condition of these blades and replacing them which the proposed engineering solutions will improve engine earlier than anticipated where necessary and the costs of fitting performance and the extent to which this assessment has been replacement parts with longer lives and the cost of related reflected in the estimated cumulative profit on aftermarket disruption claims were properly assessed as being contract costs contracts on the affected fleets.
As this assessment is dependent and that the cost of designing replacement parts with longer lives on deep engineering expertise of management personnel, we and associated improvements were properly assessed as being requested and received specific representations from the Board development costs that should be charged to the income statement of Directors that it was likely that the proposed engineering as incurred.
solutions should improve engine performance to at least the levels included in these accounting estimates.
We found that the estimates included in the accounting for long-term aftermarket contracts on the Trent 1000 and Trent 900 Test of details: We considered a combination of external and fleets affected by the in-service engine issues were balanced and internal information to determine expectations for contract that the current level of understanding and the nature of some of revenue and cost assumptions for each programme and these issues are such that the estimated level of improvement in identified contracts that were outliers.
We sought explanations engine performance and the estimated costs could change for these outliers and corroborated these explanations by significantly in the future as this understanding matures.
reference to appropriate commercial information and, where necessary, the underlying contracts.
Our testing did not identify any indicators of management bias in the estimation of future contract costs or revenues and verified that For all new contracts in the period we assessed whether key refinements to estimates made during the period were justifiable contractual terms, such as the contract length, the number of and within a range of reasonably expected outcomes.
Overall, our engines expected to be delivered and the flying hour rates, were assessment is that the assumptions and resulting estimates resulted correctly reflected in the contract accounting models.
We also in balanced 2016 audit finding: balanced profit recognition.
reviewed the contracts for unusual terms that might indicate a cost profile different to the baseline cost assumptions for the fleet.
D Recoverability of intangible assets certification costs and participation fees, development expenditure and contractual We also checked the mathematical accuracy of analysis of the aftermarket rights in the Civil Aerospace business in-year margin impact of changes in cost and revenue estimates on a contract by contract basis.
For a sample of contracts Refer to page 124 Key sources of estimation uncertainty we obtained explanations for the changes in assumptions, Forecasts and discount rates, pages 128 and 129 Significant corroborating those explanations by reference to appropriate accounting policies Certification costs and participation fees, commercial and operational data, and assessed whether any Research and development, Contractual aftermarket rights and changes identified had been reflected across other fleets Impairment of non-current assets, pages 142 to 143 Note 9 to where relevant.
the financial statements Intangible assets and pages 99 and 100 Audit Committee report Financial reporting We considered the completeness of cost estimates for emerging technical issues by reviewing a combination of external The risk Forecast-based valuation The recovery of these assets information, such as air worthiness directives, and internal depends on a combination of achieving sufficiently profitable information such as registers of in-flight events and business in the future as well as the ability of customers to pay disruption indices.
amounts due under contracts often over a long period of time.
Assets relating to a particular engine programme are more prone We challenged the assessment of the recoverability of contract to the risk of impairment in the early years of a programme as the assets by considering external customer credit ratings and engines market position is established.
In addition, the pricing searching for any other indicators of stress amongst the of business with launch customers makes assets relating to these customer base.
We also considered whether there were any engines more prone to the risk of impairment.
OTHER INFORMATION Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 187 Independent Auditors Report The significance of the risk has increased during the year due to Sensitivity analysis: We performed sensitivity analysis to assess the substantial increase in the estimated cost of managing in-service the impact of possible different assumptions related to revenue engine issues and developing longer-lived turbine blades and and cost estimates including 1 increases or decreases to the associated improvements for the Trent 900 programme, which is forecast period of aftermarket revenue on current in-service the programme where the intangible assets are most susceptible engines, 2 decreases to the forecast future engine sales and 3 to impairment.
increases or decreases to the forecast costs or delays in delivering the solutions to the in-service technical issues Our response Our procedures focused on the Trent 900 referred to above including any increased pay-outs under programme intangible assets and included: associated guarantees to a cornerstone customer.
Controls: We tested the controls designed and applied by Personnel interviews: We interviewed a wide range of financial the Group to provide assurance that the assumptions used in and operational personnel to identify any factors that should be preparing the impairment calculations are regularly updated, taken into account in our analysis.
In all cases we corroborated that changes are monitored, scrutinised and approved by managements explanations, including changes in assumptions, appropriate personnel and that the final assumptions used and evaluated these relative to our own analysis.
We assessed in impairment testing have been appropriately approved.
whether there were any indicators of bias in the explanations provided to us by management.
Historical comparisons and our sector knowledge: We challenged the appropriateness of the key assumptions in the Assessing transparency: We considered whether the disclosures impairment tests including market size, market share, pricing, in Note 9 to the financial statements describe the inherent engine and aftermarket unit costs, individual programme degree of subjectivity in the estimates and the potential impact assumptions, price and cost escalation, discount rate and on future periods of revisions to these estimates.
Our challenge was based on our assessment of the historical accuracy of the Groups estimates in previous Our findings Our testing did not identify weaknesses in the periods, our understanding of the commercial prospects of design and operation of controls that would have required us to key engine programmes, identification and analysis of changes expand the nature or scope of our planned detailed test work.
in assumptions from prior periods and an assessment of the We found no errors in calculations 2016 audit finding: none.
consistency of assumptions across programmes and customers With regard to the Trent 900 programme assets, we found 1 and comparison of assumptions with public data where this that the cost estimates made for the 2016 impairment test were was available.
This assessment was also informed by discussions appropriate in hindsight, based on the emergence of the issues with an aircraft valuation specialist engaged by the Group.
late in 2016 and the data available at that time: 2 that there is no We assessed whether the valuation specialist was objective evidence that estimates made for the 2017 impairment test were and suitably qualified.
biased: and 3 that overall the assumptions and resulting estimates We also assessed whether the significant increase in the estimated on the Trent 900 programme were mildly optimistic and that other cost of managing the in-service engine issues on the Trent 900 acceptable estimates could have led to the recognition of an programme indicated that managements estimates made for the impairment 2016 audit finding: balanced.
We found that the 2016 impairment test for that programme were optimistic and disclosures relating to the carrying value of programme intangible whether that should impact on our assessment of estimates made assets were proportionate in the context of a significant portion of this year.
these assets being derecognised on adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 2016 audit finding: proportionate.
We considered the nature and causes of the in-service engine E issues on the Trent 900 programme and challenged management Consequences of deferred prosecution and leniency on its assessment of the cost of addressing these issues and agreements in connection with alleged bribery and on the extent to which the proposed engineering solutions corruption in overseas markets will improve engine performance and the extent to which this Refer to pages 109 Safety & Ethics Committee report assessment has been reflected in the estimated future cash flows Ethics and compliance of the affected fleets.
As these assessments are dependent on deep engineering expertise of management personnel, we The risk Omitted disclosure In January 2017, the Group entered requested and received specific representations from the Board into deferred prosecution agreements with the UK Serious Fraud of Directors that it was likely that the proposed engineering Office SFO and the US Department of Justice DoJ and a leniency solutions should improve engine performance to at least the agreement with the Brazilian Federal Prosecution Service MPF levels included in these accounting estimates.
the Agreements related to allegations against the Group for making fraudulent payments to commercial intermediaries in Test of details: For in-service engines we compared the overseas territories.
Under the Agreements, prosecution was assumptions in the impairment model to those that we had suspended provided that the Group fulfils certain requirements, verified to be appropriate in the contract accounting models including the payment of a financial penalty.
If the Group were found through the procedures discussed above.
We compared to have failed to fulfil its responsibilities under the Agreements it assumptions in the business plans to those adopted in prior would risk prosecution and this would require disclosure in the periods and for all changes we obtained explanations, financial statements.
corroborating those explanations by reference to appropriate commercial and operational data.
Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 188 Independent Auditors Report We have read the Agreements and consider that the most relevant selection process or had been identified during the circumstance that could result in the risk of prosecution would investigations by the DoJ, SFO and MPF and 2 extracting details be identification of further instances of bribery and corruption of transactions that had been recorded in accounts that were whether or not reported to the authorities.
The Group operates intended to record payments to commercial intermediaries.
in an industry where some procurement processes are highly For a sample of these transactions, we then tested whether the susceptible to the risk of corruption.
A large part of the Groups identified transactions had been subject to the Groups controls business is characterised by competition for individually significant over approval of payments made to commercial intermediaries contracts with customers which are often directly or indirectly including whether the organisations to which payments were associated with governments.
In addition the Group operates in made had been subject to the Groups controls over the a number of territories where the use of commercial intermediaries appointment and renewal of commercial intermediaries.
is either required by the government or is common practice.
Enquiry of lawyers: Having enquired of management, including We therefore designed an approach to provide reasonable the Head of Ethics and Compliance and the Group General assurance that we would identify bribery and corruption involving Counsel, the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors as to commercial intermediaries that would require disclosure in the whether the Group is in compliance with laws and regulations financial statements.
However, as described below reasonable relating to bribery and corruption, we made written enquiries assurance is a high level of assurance.
It does not guarantee that of and met with the Groups legal advisers to cross check the an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect results of those enquiries and also to enquire whether they were a material misstatement when one exists.
As with any audit, there aware of any matters relating to the Groups compliance with remains a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities such as the Agreements.
bribery and corruption, as these may involve collusion, forgery, Compliance report scrutiny: We reviewed the compliance intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of reports required to be made to the DoJ and the SFO under internal controls.
the Agreements and to other authorities and vouched the status Whilst this inherent limitation is the same as that in other audits, of matters documented in these reports to further support where it should be of greater significance to the addressee of this objectively verifiable.
Our findings We did not identify any breaches of the requirements This is a risk arising for the first time this year.
of the Agreements, payments of bribes or other corrupt behaviour that would result in omitted disclosure in the financial statements.
Our response Our procedures included: Presentation and explanation of results Heightened scepticism and use of our anti-bribery and Refer to pages 21 to 41 Business review, pages 16 to 19 and 50 corruption expertise: Throughout the audit we maintained to 54 Financial review, pages 132 to 136 Note 2 to the financial a high level of vigilance to possible indications of significant statements Segmental analysis and pages 99 and 100 non-compliance with laws and regulations relating to bribery Audit Committee report Financial reporting and corruption whilst carrying out our other audit procedures.
F In particular, we communicated the risks over bribery and The presentation of underlying profit corruption to our team, which included individuals with The risk Presentation appropriateness In addition to its Adopted experience relevant to considering bribery and corruption risks IFRS financial statements, the Group presents an alternative income in the context of an audit, and we requested our component statement on an underlying basis.
The directors believe the teams to report on any possible indications of irregularities in underlying income statement reflects better the Groups trading this area.
The basis of adjusting between the Control design: We evaluated the tone set by the Board of Adopted IFRS and underlying income statements and a full Directors and the Executive Leadership Team and the Groups reconciliation between them is set out in Note 2 to the financial approach to managing the risk of bribery and corruption.
We evaluated and tested the Groups policies, procedures A significant recurring adjustment between the Adopted IFRS and controls over selection, appointment and renewal of financial information and the underlying financial information intermediaries, contracting with intermediaries, ongoing relates to the foreign exchange rates used to translate foreign management of contracts with intermediaries and payments made currency transactions.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange to intermediaries.
We observed Sector Audit Committee meetings contracts to manage the cash flow exposures of a proportion of at which lists of payments were reviewed for completeness.
forecast transactions denominated in foreign currencies with the We evaluated internal audits covering payments to intermediaries aim of having transactions denominated in foreign currencies in and we compared the results of the internal audits to the results of the current period fully hedged but does not apply hedge our testing of payments described below.
We also made enquiries accounting in its Adopted IFRS financial information for these of the Groups central compliance function and reviewed their transactions.
The underlying financial information translates reporting to the Safety & Ethics Committee and to the Sector transactions denominated in foreign currencies at the achieved Audit Committees in connection with the identification of and foreign exchange rate on forward foreign exchange contracts response to suspected breaches of policy.
settled in the period, retranslates assets and liabilities at exchange Test of details: We sought to identify payments made to rates forecast to be achieved from future settlement of such commercial intermediaries during the year using data analysis contracts and excludes unrealised gains and losses on such techniques.
This included 1 searching for transaction details contracts which are included in the Adopted IFRS income which included specific terms or names of organisations that statement.
The Group has discretion over which forward foreign in our experience could be associated with potential payments exchange contracts are settled in each financial year, which could to commercial intermediaries, or the names of commercial impact the achieved rate both for the period and in the future.
intermediaries that had been rejected through the Groups Management bias in the selection of the settled forward foreign exchange contracts could distort the performance of the Group.
OTHER INFORMATION Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 189 Independent Auditors Report In addition, adjustments are made to exclude one-off past-service research and development charges, reorganisation costs and costs on post-retirement schemes, the cost of restructuring foreign exchange translation, which can be uneven in frequency programmes that involve the substantial closure or exit from a site, and or amount.
If significant either to the profit for the year or facility or line of business or other major transformation activities, to the trend in profit, appropriate disclosure of the effect of these the effect of acquisition accounting including any subsequent items is necessary in the Annual Report and financial statements impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets, gains or losses to provide the information necessary to enable shareholders to on the sale of businesses and a number of other items.
Alternative performance measures such as the underlying The significance of this risk has decreased this year as the Group financial information can provide shareholders with appropriate now has a well-established practice of providing ample disclosure additional information if properly used and presented.
cases, measures such as these can assist shareholders in gaining Our response Our procedures included: a more detailed and hence better understanding of a companys financial performance and strategy.
However, when improperly Assessing balance and assessing transparency: We undertook used and or presented, these kinds of measures might prevent the detailed analysis of business performance at Group and segment Annual Report being fair, balanced and understandable by hiding level that sought to identify items that affect profit and the trend the real financial position and results or by distorting the apparent in profit which are uneven in frequency or amount at a much profitability of the Group.
lower level than we would otherwise have done and to assess the transparency of disclosure of these items.
We challenged the The significance of this risk has decreased this year following prominence and adequacy of the disclosures throughout the the inclusion of somewhat improved disclosure of the nature Annual Report and in the results announcement relating to the and amounts of the adjustments between Adopted IFRS and significant in-service engine issues on the Trent 1000 and Trent underlying measures in the 2016 and 2017 Annual Reports.
900 programmes, in particular the adequacy of the disclosure Our response Our procedures included: indicating the estimated future cost of these issues in the context of only a proportion of the cash impact being incurred to date Assessing principles: We assessed the appropriateness of the and of contract accounting resulting in only a proportion of the basis for the adjustments between the Adopted IFRS income estimated ultimate cost having been recorded in the income statement and the underlying income statement.
Assessing application: We assessed the consistency of Our findings We identified a number of significant items that application of this basis and we recalculated the adjustments had affected profit for the year or the prior year that required with a particular focus on the impact of the foreign exchange appropriate disclosure in the Annual Report to enable shareholders rates used to translate foreign currency amounts in the to assess the Groups performance.
The key items are: underlying income statement.
We assessed whether or not the selection of forward foreign exchange contracts settled 1 the 2,648m unrealised fair value gains 2016: 4,420m losses in the year showed any evidence of management bias.
on derivative contracts: Assessing transparency: We also assessed: i the extent to which 2 th e 227m loss 2016: 98m loss relating to in-service engine the prominence given to the underlying financial information issues on the Trent 1000 and Trent 900 programmes: and related commentary in the Annual Report compared to the 3 the 113m gain 2016: 217m gain arising from the impact Adopted IFRS financial information and related commentary of improvements in lifecycle costs on long-term contracts: could be misleading: ii whether the Adopted IFRS and underlying financial information are reconciled with sufficient 4 the 148m loss 2016: 98m loss on long-term contracts arising prominence given to that reconciliation: iii whether the basis from technical issues on Civil Aerospace engines including of the underlying financial information is clearly and accurately 114m 2016: 55m relating to the in-service engine issues described and consistently applied: and iv whether the on the Trent 1000 and Trent 900 programmes which is also underlying financial information is not otherwise misleading in included in 2 above: the form and context in which it appears in the Annual Report.
5 the 77m gain 2016: nil resulting from an improvement Our findings We found no concerns regarding the basis of in a customer credit rating: the underlying financial information or its calculation and no 6 the 60m loss 2016: 29m loss arising from other estimate indication of management bias in the settlement of forward foreign changes on long-term contracts: exchange contracts.
We consider that there is proportionate disclosure of the nature and amounts of the adjustments to allow 7 the 795m 2016: 918m of research and development charges, shareholders to understand the implications of the two bases which excludes 83m of costs capitalised in 2017 as certain on the financial measures being presented 2016 audit finding: programmes reached capitalisation point under revised proportionate and somewhat improved.
We found the overall application of the Groups accounting policy: presentation of the underlying financial information to be 8 th e 104m, net of a release of prior year provisions of 3m, balanced 2016 audit finding: balanced.
2016: 129m, net of a 5m release of exceptional G Disclosure of the effect on the trend in profit of items which restructuring charges: are uneven in frequency or amount 9 the 75m 2016: 119m profit arising from sales of spare engines The risk Presentation appropriateness The Groups profits to joint ventures: are significantly impacted by items, such as cumulative adjustments 10 the 798m of gains resulting from the acquisition of a to profit recognised on long-term contracts, impairments and controlling interest in ITP Aero: reversals of impairments of goodwill, CARs and other intangible assets, sale and leasebacks of spare engines to joint ventures, Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 190 Independent Auditors Report 11 the 163m 2016: nil of advance corporation tax recognised Assessing the due diligence providers credentials: Management on change of tax legislation: engaged a third party expert to assist in estimating the future cash flows of ITP Aero to be used in valuing the intangible assets 12 the 219m impairment of goodwill recognised in 2016: acquired and the existing shareholding in ITP Aero.
The third party expert was provided with base data by the management of ITP 13 the 30m loss arising on Civil Aerospace new engine Aero and subjected this to challenge and derived adjustments programmes in 2016: to the base cash flows provided by management for use in 14 the 671m financial penalties recognised in 2016 from the valuations.
We evaluated the experts competence and agreements with investigating authorities in connection independence and whether it had been appropriately instructed.
with alleged historic bribery and corruption involving Our corporate finance expertise and our sector knowledge: intermediaries in overseas territories: We evaluated the basis upon which management identified the 15 the 53m release of accruals in 2016 relating to the termination intangible assets acquired.
We assessed whether the measurement in prior years of intermediaries services: bases used to estimate the fair values of the identified assets were reasonable, taking account of our experience of similar assets in 16 the 306m loss recognised in 2016 from the restructuring of other comparable situations and our assessment of the work the UK pension schemes.
performed by the third party expert.
We found that ample disclosure of these items had been provided Our corporate finance expertise and our sector knowledge: in the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole We assessed the basis used by management to value the existing 2016 audit finding: ample.
We challenged the appropriateness of H Gains resulting from the acquisition of a controlling interest the key assumptions underlying the forecast cash flows including in Industria fide Turbo Propulsores SA ITP Aero program assumptions and the terminal value growth rate and compared these to the Groups own forecasts where ITP Aeros Refer to pages 99 and 100 Audit Committee report Financial and the Groups businesses overlapped.
We challenged the reporting, page 128 Note 1 to the financial statements discount rate applied and the non-controlling interest discount Accounting policies and page 167 Note 25 to the financial deducted from the enterprise value in managements valuation.
statements Acquisitions and disposals We also assessed whether or not the estimates showed any The risk Subjective valuation On 19 December 2017, the Group evidence of management bias.
purchased the outstanding 53.1% of Industria fide Turbo Propulsores Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the appropriate SA ITP Aero that it did not already own.
As explained on page 167, disclosures have been provided on the judgements and given the proximity of the acquisition to the end of the year, the fair estimates applied in arriving at the fair values.
values of the assets and liabilities acquired have been assessed on a provisional basis.
Our findings We found that the intangible assets identified were typical of acquisitions of similar businesses and the valuation Estimating the fair value of the intangible assets of ITP Aero at the bases were in accordance with accounting standards.
We have no date of acquisition involved the use of complex valuation techniques concerns with the basis on which the valuer had been instructed by and the estimation of future cash flows over a considerable period the Group and found that the valuer was objective and competent of time.
and the estimates used in the valuations were balanced.
We found The Groups existing 46.9% shareholding has been remeasured that the disclosure regarding the provisional nature of the fair values to estimated fair value at the acquisition date and a 553m gain attributed to the intangible assets was balanced given the timing has been recognised in the income statement.
As the consideration of the acquisition and limitations on the information ITP Aero could payable for the remaining interest was established through provide to the Group prior to completion of the acquisition.
a contractual mechanism included in the option agreement We found that the basis used to value the existing shareholding under which the remaining interest was put to the Group, it is in ITP Aero was in accordance with accounting standards and that not considered to be indicative of a fair value of the existing the key assumptions applied in the valuation were balanced.
The Group has calculated the fair value of the existing shareholding using a discounted cash flow methodology that I Disclosure of the impact of adopting IFRS 15 involves the use of significant judgement in estimating future cash Refer to pages 99 and 100 Audit Committee report Financial flows over a considerable period of time, assessing the appropriate reporting, pages 131 to 132 Note 1 to the financial statements discount rate to use and establishing a suitable non-controlling Accounting policies IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with interest discount to deduct from the enterprise value.
Customers and pages 170 to 171 Note 27 to the financial Our response Our procedures, which were carried out in the statements Impact of IFRS 15 context of the fair values of the acquired intangible assets only The risk Accounting treatment and accounting application being able to be estimated on a provisional basis, included: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers will be effective Assessing the valuers credentials: Management engaged a for the year beginning 1 January 2018 and will have a pronounced third party expert to assist in identifying ITP Aeros intangible impact on the recognition of revenue and profit in the Civil assets and in determining their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group has disclosed the estimated We evaluated the experts competence and independence impact of applying the new standard to its 2017 results.
The Groups and whether it had been appropriately instructed and had contracts can be complex and there is significant judgement applied been provided with complete, accurate data on which to base in selecting the accounting policies under IFRS 15.
There is a risk that its valuations.
the Group has not captured the correct policies in line with the new standard and that not all material areas of potential change have been identified.
In addition there is a risk that the policies are not applied appropriately.
OTHER INFORMATION Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 191 Independent Auditors Report Our response Our procedures included: exceeding the Groups consolidated net assets.
We assessed that individually and in aggregate these did not amount to an indicator Accounting analysis and our sector experience: Starting in 2015, of impairment.
we reviewed the process and outputs of the adoption of IFRS 15 impact analysis, evaluated the appropriateness of the key In reaching our audit opinion on the financial statements we took judgements and estimates, and assessed whether the policies into account the findings that we describe above and those for other, adopted are in compliance with IFRS 15.
Based on our knowledge lower risk areas included in the output from our Dynamic Audit of the business and of the impact of adoption of IFRS 15 on other planning tool set out above.
Overall the findings from across the companies with similar businesses, we assessed whether all whole audit are that the financial statements have been prepared material areas of potential change under IFRS 15 have been on the basis of appropriate accounting policies, reflect balanced identified.
We considered each significant distinct revenue estimates and provide proportionate disclosure.
However, having stream and our knowledge of the terms of the contracts to assessed these findings and evaluated uncorrected misstatements determine the likelihood of there being a material difference in the context of materiality and considered the qualitative aspects between the current treatment and the requirements of IFRS 15. of the financial statements as a whole, we have not modified our Our analysis covered the whole business but we were particularly opinion on the financial statements.
focused on the Civil Aerospace business and on the treatment of long-term contracts in other parts of the Group.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview Test of details: We selected samples of contracts based on a risk of the scope of our audit assessment of contracts most likely to be affected by IFRS 15 and Materiality recalculated the impact of applying the accounting policies Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at developed by the Group.
40m 2016: 30m, determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax averaged over the last three years, in order Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the disclosure to take into account the volatility in profits over this period, and adequately disclosed the key revenue recognition policies under normalised to exclude the impact of gains and losses on revaluation IFRS 15 and the estimated impact on the 2017 income statement of foreign currency and other derivative financial instruments, and net assets at 31 December 2017. which could otherwise result in an inappropriate materiality level Our findings We found that the Group had carried out an analysis being determined.
This benchmark was 950m 2016: 1,039m of potential differences between revenue recognition under IFRS 15 and this materiality measure represents 4.2% 2016: 2.9% of this and under its current accounting policies commensurate with benchmark and 0.8% 2016: 0.6% of total reported profit loss describing the effect of applying the new standard.
We carry out audit procedures to assess the accuracy the Group had made judgements in developing its IFRS 15 of the gains and losses on these derivative financial instruments accounting policies that were consistent with a balanced which this year amounted to a 2.6bn gain 2016: 4.4bn loss interpretation of the new standard with an objective of faithfully as part of our audit of the Groups treasury operations.
representing the substance of the Groups transactions with its customers.
We found that in compiling the estimated impact of Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole applying IFRS 15, the Group had applied those policies consistently was set at 36m 2016: 27m, determined with reference to a to similar transactions.
We found the resulting disclosure to be ample.
benchmark of net assets, of which it represents 0.3% 2016: 0.2%, as the parent Company is treated as a component for the purposes of the audit of the Group financial statements.
Recoverability of the parent Companys investment in subsidiaries 12 bn: 2016: 12bn We agreed to report to the Audit Committee i all material corrected identified misstatements: ii uncorrected identified Refer to page 173 parent Company financial statements.
misstatements exceeding 2m 2016: 1.5m for income statement The risk Low risk, high value The carrying amount of the parent items: and iii other identified misstatements that warranted Companys investments in subsidiaries represents 100% 2016: reporting on qualitative grounds.
Their recoverability is not at a high risk of significant misstatement or subject to significant judgement.
The scope of our audit However, due to their materiality in the context of the parent Of the Groups 367 reporting components, we subjected 25 Company financial statements, this is considered to be the area 2016: 34 to full scope audits for group purposes and 7 2016: 13 that had the greatest effect on our audit of the parent Companys to specified risk-focused audit procedures.
The latter were not financial statements.
individually financially significant enough to require a full scope audit for group purposes, but did present specific individual risks Our response Our procedures included: that needed to be addressed.
This work also provided further Our sector experience: Having established that the parent audit coverage.
Company owns the whole of the issued share capital of a The components within the scope of our work accounted for company that directly or indirectly owns all other group the percentages illustrated opposite.
companies, we used our understanding of the sectors in which the Group operates and of the Groups business to identify The remaining 5% of total group revenue, 4% of group profit any potential indicators of impairment of the investment in before tax and 5% of total group assets is represented by 335 that company and then carried out analysis to evaluate whether reporting components, none of which individually represented any of these potential indicators of impairment represented an more than 0.8% of any of total group revenue, group profit before indicator of impairment.
tax or total group assets.
For these residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine Our findings We identified some potential indicators of our assessment that there were no significant risks of material impairment, including the current trading conditions affecting the misstatement within these.
Commercial Marine business and the parent Companys net assets Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 192 Independent Auditors Report For the more significant components 18 components contributing Revenue Underlying profit before tax 88% of revenue and 70% profit before tax, the Group audit team received reporting on audit findings and participated in Sector Audit Committee meetings and closing meetings with component management.
Towards the conclusion of each component audit, the Group audit team met the component audit teams either face to face or on a telephone conference and discussed the findings reported to the Group audit team in more detail and reviewed and evaluated the audit work of each component audit team on significant audit risks and other relevant areas.
Any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component audit team.
92% 2016: 94% 93% 2016: 89% 3% 2016: 5% 3% 2016: 8% The Group audit team communicated the independence and other 5% 2016: 1% 4% 2016: 3% ethical requirements that apply to the audit to component audit teams.
Throughout the year, the Group audit team assessed each Total assets non-audit service that the Group requested KPMG undertake worldwide and only approved the service once it was established that the service was permissible under auditor independence regulations and had been pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
4 We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements Audit for group on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no reporting purposes material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the 91% 2016: 89% specified risk-focused 4% 2016: 8% Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least audit procedures 5% 2016: 3% twelve months from the date of approval of the financial Group-level procedures only statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 63 The Group operates shared service centres for the bulk processing is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
of financial transactions in Derby UK, Indianapolis US and We have nothing to report in these respects.
Singapore, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the reporting components they service and therefore they are not separate reporting components.
Each of the service 5 We have nothing to report on the other information centres is subject to specified risk-focused audit procedures, in the Annual Report predominantly the testing of transaction processing and review The directors are responsible for the other information presented controls.
Additional audit procedures are performed at certain in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
reporting components to address the audit risks not covered by Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover this other the work performed over the shared service centres.
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance The work on 21 of the 32 components 2016: 19 of the 47 components conclusion thereon.
was performed by component audit teams and the rest, including the audit of the parent Company, was performed by the Group audit Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing team.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors and the so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, audit teams of the shared service centres as to the significant areas the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with to be covered including the relevant risks detailed above, the audit the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on approach to be taken on significant risks and the information to that work we have not identified material misstatements in the be reported to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team set other information.
the materiality to be used for each component audit, which ranged from 1.4m to 30m 2016: 0.2m to 30m, having regard to the mix Strategic report and directors report of size and risk profile of the components.
Based solely on our work on the other information: The Group audit team maintained close contact with the audit teams we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic on the more significant components through weekly telephone report and the directors report: conference meetings and other ad hoc communications and the Group team visited 20 2016: 33 locations in UK, the US, Germany in our opinion the information given in those reports for the and Scandinavia meeting with the component audit teams and financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and component management.
The purpose of these communications in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance was to update the Group teams understanding of the components with the Companies Act 2006. business and related risks of material misstatement and to monitor progress of the audit.
OTHER INFORMATION Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 193 Independent Auditors Report Directors remuneration report 6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report which we are required to report by exception to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you Companies Act 2006. if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial received from branches not visited by us: or statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in the directors confirmation within the Compliance with the UK agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Corporate Governance Code 2016 Statement page 77 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law the Group, including those that would threaten its business are not made: or model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: we have not received all the information and explanations the Principal Risks disclosures pages 59 to 62 describing we require for our audit.
these risks and explaining how they are being managed and We have nothing to report in these respects.
mitigated: and the directors explanation in the Going Concern and Viability 7 Respective responsibilities Statements page 63 of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they Directors responsibilities considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 114, as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary the preparation of financial statements that are free from material qualifications or assumptions.
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Going disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and Concern and Viability Statements page 63.
We have nothing using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either to report in this respect.
intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: Auditors responsibilities we have identified material inconsistencies between the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit the financial statements as a whole are free from material and the directors statement that they consider that the Annual misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK business model and strategy page 114 : or will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they Audit Committee pages 97 to 103 does not appropriately could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
We are required to report to you if the Compliance with the UK A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs Corporate Governance Code 2016 Statement pages 77 and 78 website at www.
does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Ability to detect irregularities Rules for our review.
We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably We have nothing to report in these respects.
be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management personnel as required by ISAs UK, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including those relating to financial reporting and related company legislation and taxation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 194 Independent Auditors Report In addition, we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of civil aviation safety, export control, defence contracting and anti-bribery and corruption legislation recognising the financial and regulated nature of the Groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance identified in the course of our audit, as required by ISAs UK, our work in respect of these areas was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management personnel and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
Additional considerations in respect of bribery and corruption are set out in the key audit matter disclosures in section 2 of this report.
We communicated these identified areas of laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group audit team to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level, with a request to report on any indications of the potential existence of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the parent Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement by the parent Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the parent Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and the further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with the terms agreed with the parent Company and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the parent Company and the parent Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Jimmy Daboo Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 6 March 2018
