Financial statements Independent auditors report To the members of CLS Holdings plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at31December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, asregardsthe group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of CLS Holdings plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the group income statement: the group statement of comprehensive income: the group and parent company balance sheets: the group statement of cash flows: the group and parent company statements of changes in equity: and the related notes 1 to 33 to the group financial statements and 1 to 15 to the parent company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable lawand IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Ourresponsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: the valuation of the investment property portfolio: and accounting for significant transactions.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 20.7 million based on 2% of net assets.
For testing of balances that impacted EPRA adjusted profit before tax, a lower materiality of2.2 million was used based on 5% of that measure.
Scoping We subject all locations in which CLS operate to specific audit procedures, this accounts for 100% ofthe Groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
Significant changes In the current year, we considered the accounting for significant transactions as a key audit matter inour approach as a result of the material quantum of the Vauxhall Square and Metropolis Portfolio transactions 82 completed in the year.
CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2.1 to the financial statements We confirm that we have nothing about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of material to report, add or draw accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties attentionto in respect of these matters.
to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained inthe audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether We confirm that we have nothing they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, material to report, add or draw including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment attentionto in respect of these matters.
of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention toinrelation to: the disclosures on pages 2021 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 40 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 52 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
83 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued To the members of CLS Holdings plc Valuation of the investment property portfolio Key audit matter The assessment of the carrying value of the investment property portfolio, specifically the process, description assumptions and judgements used to derive the property valuations.
The Groups investment properties in the UK, Germany and France are held at 1,753.4 million at 31December 2017 31 December 2016: 1,536.6 million, see note 13 for full disclosure, making this themost quantitatively material balance in the financial statements.
The valuation of the portfolio is a significant judgement area that is underpinned by a number of assumptions including capitalisation yields and future lease income.
Our key audit matter in relation to the valuation of the investment property portfolio is pinpointed to the judgement within the inputs used inthe data supplied to the Groups valuers for the valuation process and the risk of potential manipulation of this by management in order to fraudulently misstate the valuation.
Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 58 where this is included as a significant issue.
The relevant accounting policy for the Group is presented in note 3 on page 98.
How the scope We assessed the design and implementation of key controls in respect of this business process.
of our audit responded to the We assessed managements process for reviewing the valuations of the property portfolio.
key audit matter We utilised the expertise of a real estate specialist and chartered surveyor for our challenge of the investment property valuations, in particular to challenge the significant judgements and assumptions applied in their valuation model.
We obtained the external valuation reports and met with the external valuers of the property portfolio todiscuss, understand and challenge the valuation process, estimated rental values, performance of theportfolio, significant assumptions and critical judgement areas, including occupancy rates, yieldsanddevelopment milestones.
As part of our meeting with the external valuers we assessed their competence, independence and integrity.
Our real estate specialist provided relevant industry data for the UK and drew on local expertise in the European markets in which CLS operates.
This was used to benchmark the portfolio performance and key assumptions used to assess whether the external evidence supported the assumptions used by the valuers.
Finally, we assessed, on a sample basis, the integrity of information provided to the valuer, relating torental income, to evaluate whether it was consistent with the leases.
Key observations We concluded that the assumptions applied in arriving at the fair value of the Groups property portfolio were appropriate.
84 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Accounting for significant transactions Key audit matter The assessment of the accounting treatment for the most significant investment property description transactions completed in the year.
The Group has completed a significant number of transactions in the year of varying sizes, those that aresignificantly more material are: the disposal of the development site at Vauxhall Square for total proceeds of 141.1 million: and the acquisition of the Metropolis portfolio in Germany at a total cost of 140.1 million.
Sale and Purchase Agreements are typically complex agreements and consequently, for all significant transactions we deem the accounting for these to require significant focus in particular around the more complex areas such as rental top-up payments and conditionality.
The key audit matter around accounting for transactions is pinpointed to the accounting treatment of the major transactions being the Vauxhall Square disposal and the Metropolis acquisition, and specifically in respect of the latter, whether this is a business combination as this was a purchase of shares in companies and included some employees.
of our audit responded to the We audited the disposal of Vauxhall Square and acquisition of the Metropolis portfolio by agreeing key key audit matter amounts per completion statements to signed Sale and Purchase Agreements and tracing proceeds orconsideration received to bank statements.
We performed a detailed review of completed transaction Sale and Purchase Agreements for the above transactions, specifically checking for the inclusion of any unusual consideration clauses.
Related costs of these transactions have been tested on a sample basis with payments and receipts traced to bank statement.
Managements paper on the Metropolis transaction has been reviewed and challenged to consider iftheshare purchase of these companies and employees acquired means business processes have beenacquired and thus a business combination has arisen or if an asset purchase has been completed.
Key observations We concluded that the significant transactions completed in the year are free from material error and in respect of the Metropolis transaction, we concurred with Managements opinion that this isastraightforward asset purchase and not a business combination.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
85 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued To the members of CLS Holdings plc Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 20.7 million 2016: 17.5 million 15.5 million 2016: 10.5 million We continue to consider EPRA adjusted profit Lower materiality for those items impacting before tax to be a critical performance measure EPRA adjusted profit before tax of 1.6 million for the Group and we applied a lower materiality 2016: 1.8 million.
of 2.2 million 2016: 2.7 million for testing of balances impacting that measure, being most balance sheet and income statement balances with the exception primarily of fair value movements on investment property, investments and financial instruments.
Basis for determining We have determined materiality for the Group and Parent Company based on 2% 2016: 2% materiality ofnetassets.
For testing of balances that impact EPRA adjusted profit before tax, a basis of 5% 2016: 5% ofthatmeasure has been used.
Rationale for the As an investment property company, the main focus of management is to generate long-term benchmark applied capital value from the investment property portfolio and, therefore, we consider net assets to be the most appropriate basis for materiality.
The increase in materiality from the prior year reflects the increase in net assets driven by the uplift in the valuation of the investment property portfolio, largely as a result of the favourable exchange rate movements.
Group materiality 20.7m Component materiality range Net assets 8.3m to 15.5m 1,035m Audit Committee reporting threshold 1m Net assets Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1,035,200 2016: 875,000 for the Group as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risk of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, and consistent with our conclusion on scoping in the prior year, we focused our Group audit scope on the audit work at each of the Groups principal business units, being the UK, France, Germany and Sweden.
These locations represent the principal business units and account for 100% 2016: 100% of the Groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
All business units were subject to specific audit procedures.
This approach provides an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks ofmaterial misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at each of the four business units has been executed by Deloitte component auditors at levels of materiality applicable to each individual business unit which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 8.3 million to 15.5million 2016: 4.0 million to 8.9 million with lower materialities being used for those items impacting EPRA adjustedprofit before tax, consistent with the Group audit approach.
86 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The audit work on the key audit matters has been led by the Group audit team, supplemented by specific procedures by the component auditors.
The component auditors work has been reviewed by the Group team on site for the French component and remotely for all other components in the current year and, where necessary, component auditors carried out further testing at our request.
At the Group level we tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information.
All component audit partners are included in our team briefing where their risk assessment is discussed and there is frequent two-way communication between the Group and component teams.
In the year, we have visited our component team in France.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information We have nothing to report comprises the information included in the annual report included in the Annual in respect of these matters.
Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where weconclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model andstrategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us totheaudit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
87 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued To the members of CLS Holdings plc Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of thesefinancial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, forthisreport, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
88 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect ofthese matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion We have nothing to report in respect certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part ofthese matters.
of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by The Board of CLS Holdings Plc on 23 May 2007 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2007 and subsequent financial periods.
Following a competitive tender process, we were reappointed as auditor for the period ending 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is ten years, covering the years ending 31 December 2007 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Georgina Robb FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 7 March 2018 89
