Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Tritax Big Box REIT plc Opinion us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or We have audited the financial statements of Tritax Big Box draw attention to: REIT plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended December which the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on page - comprise the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being Group Statement of Financial Position, the parent Company managed or mitigated: Balance Sheet, the Group and parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement and Notes the Directors confirmation set out on page in the Annual to the Financial Statements, including a summary of significant Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the accounting policies.
"The financial reporting framework that principal risks facing the Group, including those that would has been applied in their preparation of the Group financial threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or statements is applicable law and International Financial liquidity: Reporting Standards ""IFRSs"" as adopted by the European Union."
The financial reporting framework that has been the Directors statement set out on page in the financial applied in preparing the parent company financial statements statements about whether the Directors considered it is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
in preparing the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Group and In our opinion the financial statements: the parent companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least months from the date of approval of the financial give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the statements: parent Companys affairs as at December and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: whether the Directors statement relating to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Rule.. R is materially inconsistent with our knowledge accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: obtained in the audit: or the parent company financial statements have been properly the Directors explanation set out on page in the Annual prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Standards: and Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as the financial statements have been prepared in accordance to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group with the requirements of the Companies Act : and, as will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as regards the Group financial statements, Article of the IAS they fall due over the period of their assessment, including Regulation.
any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Key audit matters Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional responsibilities under those standards are further described judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial financial statements of the current period and include the most statements section of our report.
We are independent of significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern The table overleaf shows the key audit matters that we and viability statement identified.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified for We have nothing to report in respect of the following information our audit.
There has been no change in the key audit matters in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require from the prior year as the operations of the Group remain Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION largely unchanged.
The approach to these risks also remained consistent with the prior year.
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED KEY AUDIT MATTER THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Valuation of investment property portfolio, including We obtained an understanding of the approach to the properties in the course of construction forward valuation of both investment properties and properties in funded assets the course of construction.
Refer to page, Audit Committee Report significant We met with the Groups independent valuer, who valued estimates and judgements, pages - investment all of the Groups investment properties, to understand property pages -.
the assumptions and methodologies used in valuing these The valuation of investment property requires significant properties, the market evidence supporting the valuation judgement and estimates by management and the assumptions and the valuation movements in the year.
independent valuer and is therefore considered a significant risk due to the subjective nature of certain We used our knowledge and experience to evaluate and assumptions inherent in each valuation.
challenge the valuation assumptions, methodologies and the unobservable inputs used.
The Groups investment property portfolio includes: We agreed a sample of key observable valuation inputs Standing investments: these are existing properties supplied to and used by the independent valuer to that are currently let.
They are valued using the income supporting documentation.
We assessed the competency, independence and Properties under construction: these are properties objectivity of the independent valuer.
being built under forward funded agreements with developers and which have agreed pre-lets with tenants.
For properties in the course of construction we assessed Such assets have a different risk and investment profile project costs and progress of development and verified to the standing investments.
They are valued using the forecast costs to complete included in the valuations the residual method ie by estimating the fair value of through cost analysis.
the completed project using the income capitalisation method less estimated costs to completion and an For such forward funded assets we also reviewed the appropriate developers margin.
accounting treatment of licence fees receivable from the developer during the construction phase as well as the Any input inaccuracies or unreasonable bases used in treatment of any lease incentives with the pre-let tenant.
the valuation judgements such as in respect of estimated rental value and yield profile applied could result in a material misstatement of the income statement and balance sheet.
There is also a risk that management may influence the significant judgements and estimates in respect of property valuations in order to achieve property valuation and other performance targets to meet market expectations.
Additionally, properties under construction may involve licence fees receivable from the developer during the construction phase and lease incentives to the pre-let tenant.
Accounting for such assets is typically more complex than for standing assets.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Governance: Independent Auditors Report Our application of materiality Performance materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning The application of materiality at the individual account or balance and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected Materiality is assessed on both quantitative and qualitative misstatements exceeds materiality.
With respect to disclosure and presentational matters, amounts in excess of the quantitative thresholds below may not On the basis of our risk assessment, together with our be adjusted if their effect is not considered to be material on a assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our qualitative basis.
judgement was that overall performance materiality for the Group should be % : % of materiality, namely Materiality million.
million We determined that the same measure as the Group was Specific performance materiality.
million appropriate for the Parent Company, and the performance Reporting threshold.
million materiality and specific performance materiality applied were.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually Reporting threshold or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence An amount below which identified misstatements are considered the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
We determined materiality for the Group financial statements We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the as a whole to be million : million, which was set Committee all individual audit differences in excess of, at.
This provides a basis :, as well as differences below this threshold that, for determining the nature and extent of our risk assessment in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature and extent of further We determined that the same measure as the Group was audit procedures.
appropriate for the Parent Company, and the reporting threshold applied was, .
We determined that total assets would be the most appropriate basis for determining overall materiality as we consider it to be We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the one of the principal considerations for members of the Company quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
We determined that for other account balances, classes An overview of the scope of our audit of transactions and disclosures not related to investment We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing properties a misstatement of less than materiality for the the risks of material misstatements in the financial statements.
financial statements as a whole could influence the economic In particular, we looked at where the Directors make subjective decisions of users.
We determined that materiality for these judgements.
We also addressed the risk of management areas should be.
million, which was set override of internal controls, including assessing whether there at.
EPRA earnings excludes was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of the impact of the net surplus on revaluation of investment material misstatement due to fraud.
properties and interest rate derivatives.
The Group operates solely in the United Kingdom and operates We determined that the same measure as the Group was through one segment, investment property.
The Group audit appropriate for the Parent Company, and the materiality and team performed all the work necessary to issue the Group and specific materiality applied were.
million parent company audit opinions, including undertaking all of the respectively.
audit work on the key risks of material misstatement.
See Strategic Report, pages - See Governance Report, pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Other information Opinions on other matters prescribed by the The other information comprises the information included in the Companies Act Annual Report set out on pages -, including the Strategic In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Report and Governance Report set out on pages -, to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with other than the financial statements and our auditors report the Companies Act.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated of the audit: in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, the information given in the Strategic Report and the our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Directors Report for the financial year for which the consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent financial statements are prepared is consistent with the with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in financial statements and those reports have been prepared the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If in accordance with applicable legal requirements: we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a the information about internal control and risk management material misstatement in the financial statements or a material systems in relation to financial reporting processes and misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we about share capital structures, given in compliance with rules have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement.. and.. in the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA Rules, is consistent with the financial statements We have nothing to report in this regard.
and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in information about the Companys corporate governance code the other information and to report as uncorrected material and practices and about its administrative, management and misstatements of the other information where we conclude that supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules those items meet the following conditions:.... and.. of the FCA Rules.
The statement given by the Directors on pages - that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or The section describing the work of the Audit Committee on pages - does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or The parts of the Directors statement on page required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule.. R do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
See Audit Committee Report, pages - See Strategic Report, pages - See Directors Remuneration Report, pages - See Statement of Compliance, pages See Directors Report, pages - Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Governance: Independent Auditors Report Matters on which we are required to report by exception Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the statements parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, audit, we have not identified material misstatements in: in accordance with Chapter of Part of the Companies Act.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might the Strategic Report or the Directors Report : or state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
the information about internal control and risk management To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and share capital structures, given in compliance with rules.. the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this and.. of the FCA Rules.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about relation to which the Companies Act requires us to report whether the financial statements as a whole are free from to you if, in our opinion: material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK received from branches not visited by us: or will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered the parent company financial statements and the part of the material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken agreement with the accounting records and returns: or on the basis of these financial statements.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law We consider that the audit procedures we have undertaken in are not made: or accordance with ISAs UK have provided us with reasonable assurance that irregularities, including fraud, would have been we have not received all the information and explanations we detected to the extent that they could have resulted in material require for our audit: or misstatements in the financial statements.
Our audit was not designed to identify misstatement or other irregularities a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by that would not be considered to be material to the financial the parent company.
Responsibilities of Directors A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Statement set out on page, the Directors are responsible Councils website at: www.
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
See Strategic Report, pages - See Governance Report, pages - See Viability Statement, page See Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties, pages - See Directors Responsibilities Statement, page Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Other matters which we are required to address We were initially appointed by the Directors in November to audit the financial statements of the Company for the period ended December.
In respect of subsequent periods we have been reappointed annually by the members at the Annual General Meeting.
Following a competitive re-tender in May we were reappointed to audit the financial statements for the year ending December and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is four years, covering the years ended December to December.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the parent company in conducting our audit.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Richard Levy senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor London United Kingdom March BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 118 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2017
