Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Independent auditors report Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Aviva plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups and the Companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual report and accounts the Annual report which comprise: the Consolidated and Company statements of financial position as at 31 December 2017: the Consolidated and Company income statements and statements of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Reconciliation of Group adjusted operating profit to profit for the year then ended: the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows for the year then ended: the principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements: and the notes to the financial statements which include other explanatory information.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 147 million 2016: 140 million, based on 5% of Group adjusted operating profit before tax attributable to shareholders profits after the deduction of integration and restructuring costs.
Overall Company materiality: 56 million 2016: 69 million, based on 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations.
Based on the output of our risk assessment, along with our understanding of the Aviva Group structure, we performed full scope audits over the following components: UK Life, UK General Insurance, Canada, Italy Life and France Life.
We identified a further two components, Aviva Investors and Poland Life, where specific account balances were considered to be significant in size in relation to the Group, and scoped our audit to include detailed testing of those account balances.
We also performed audit procedures over the head office operations and the consolidation process, as well as over certain UK service companies, including Aviva Employment Services and Aviva Group Holdings.
Our risk assessment analysis identified the following as areas of focus : Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities Group.
Valuation of nonlife insurance contract liabilities Group.
Valuation of hard to value investments Group.
Valuation of investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures Company.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to this risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focussed on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group financial statements, including but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, the Prudential Regulation Authoritys regulations, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant components.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with the regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, review of significant component auditors' work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 86 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Independent auditors report Continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of life insurance contract liabilities Group Refer to the Audit Committees Report, Accounting policy L Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities Longterm business provisions and Note 40 Insurance liabilities b Long-term business liabilities.
For UK Life insurance contract liabilities, the Directors The work to address the valuation of the UK Life insurance contract valuation of the provisions for the settlement of future liabilities included the following procedures: claims, involves complex and subjective judgements about We understood the governance process in place to determine the future events, both internal and external to the business, for insurance contract liabilities, including testing the associated financial which small changes in assumptions can result in material reporting control framework.
impacts to the valuation of these liabilities.
We tested the design and operating effectiveness of controls over the accuracy and completeness of data used.
Using our actuarial specialist team members, we applied our industry knowledge and experience and we compared the methodology, models and assumptions used against recognised actuarial practices.
We tested the key judgements and controls over the liability, including the preparation of the manually calculated components.
We focussed on the consistency in treatment and methodology period-on-period and with reference to recognised actuarial practice.
We used the results of an independent PwC annual benchmarking survey of assumptions to further challenge the assumption setting process by comparing certain assumptions used relative to the Groups industry peers.
We assessed the disclosures in the financial statements.
As part of our consideration of the entire set of assumptions, we focussed particularly on the Annuitant Mortality, Credit Default and Expense assumptions for the UK Life component given their significance to the Groups result and the level of judgement involved.
These have been considered in greater detail below.
Based on the work performed and the evidence obtained, we consider the assumptions used to be appropriate.
Refer to the Audit Committees Report, Accounting policy L Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities Longterm business provisions and Note 40 Insurance liabilities b Long-term business liabilities.
Annuitant Mortality Assumptions Group In addition to the procedures above, in respect of the annuitant Annuitant mortality assumptions require a high degree of mortality assumptions: judgement due to the number of factors which may We tested the methodology used by management to derive the influence mortality experience.
The differing factors which assumptions with reference to relevant rules and actuarial guidance affect the assumptions are underlying mortality experience and by applying our industry knowledge and experience.
This in the portfolio, industry and management views on the included evaluating managements choice of, and fitting to, the CMI future rate of mortality improvements and external factors base tables and the adoption of the CMI 2016 model and dataset for arising from developments in the annuity market.
improvements and the margin for prudence.
We assessed the results of the experience investigations carried out by There are two main components to the annuitant mortality UK Life management for the annuity business to determine whether assumptions: they provided support for the assumptions used by management.
Mortality base assumption: this component is typically less We compared the mortality assumptions selected by UK Life against subjective as it is derived using the external Continuous those used by their peers.
Mortality Investigation CMI tables, adjusted for internal experience.
However, judgement is required in choosing the Based on the work performed and the evidence obtained, we consider the assumptions used for annuitant mortality to be appropriate.
appropriate table and fitting internal experience to this table.
Rate of mortality improvements: this component is more subjective given the lack of data and the uncertainty over how life expectancy will change in the future.
Management has adopted the most recent CMI 2016 model and dataset in setting this assumption with specific adjustments to reflect the profile of their portfolio and their views on the rate of mortality improvements.
In addition, a margin for prudence is applied to the annuitant mortality assumptions.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 87 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Independent auditors report Continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Credit default assumptions for illiquid assets, In addition to the procedures above, in respect of the credit default specifically: Commercial mortgages and equity release assumptions: mortgages Group We tested the methodology and credit risk pricing models used by UK Life has substantial holdings in asset classes with management for commercial and equity release mortgages to derive significant credit risk, notably commercial mortgages and the assumptions with reference to relevant rules and actuarial equity release mortgages.
guidance, including the adoption of an appropriate prudence margin and by applying our industry knowledge and experience.
Management use an active approach to setting the We validated significant assumptions used by management by assumptions.
A long term deduction for credit default is ensuring consistency with the assumptions used for the valuation of made from the current market yields and a supplementary the assets, and against market observable data to the extent allowance is also held to cover the risk of higher short term available and relevant and our experience of market practices.
default rates along with a margin for prudence.
Based on the work performed and the evidence obtained, we consider the assumptions for credit default risk to be appropriate.
Expense Assumptions Group In addition to the procedures above, in respect of the expense Future maintenance expenses and expense inflation assumptions: assumptions are used in the measurement of insurance We tested the methodology used by management to derive the contract liabilities.
The assumptions reflect the expected assumptions with reference to relevant rules and actuarial guidance future expenses that will be required to maintain the in-force and by applying our industry knowledge and experience.
This policies at the balance sheet date, including an allowance for included testing the split of expenses between acquisition and project costs and a margin for prudence.
The assumptions maintenance by agreeing a sample to supporting evidence.
We validated significant assumptions used by management, including the margin for prudence and the rate of inflation against past experience, market observable data to the extent available and relevant and our experience of market practices.
We have tested that the assumptions appropriately reflect the expected future expenses for maintaining policies in force at the balance sheet date, which includes consideration of the allowance for project costs.
Based on the work performed and the evidence obtained, we consider the assumptions for expense risk to be appropriate.
Valuation of non-life insurance contract liabilities Group Refer to the Audit Committees Report, Accounting policy L Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities-General insurance and health provisions and Note 40 Insurance liabilities c General insurance and health liabilities.
The estimation of non-life insurance contract liabilities In the UK General Insurance and Canada markets, we assessed the involves a significant degree of judgement.
The liabilities are Directors calculation of the non-life insurance liabilities by performing based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred the following procedures: but not settled at 31 December 2017, whether reported or We tested the underlying data to source documentation on a sample not, together with the related claims handling costs.
Using our actuarial specialist team members, we applied our industry A range of methods, including stochastic projections, may be knowledge and experience and we compared the methodology, used to determine these provisions.
Underlying these models and assumptions used against recognised actuarial practices.
methods are a number of explicit or implicit assumptions We understood and tested the governance process in place to relating to the expected settlement amount and settlement determine the insurance contract liabilities, including testing the patterns of claims.
This includes assumptions relating to the associated financial reporting control framework.
settlement of personal injury lump sum compensation Using our actuarial specialist team members, we independently amounts.
estimated the reserves on selected classes of business, particularly focusing on the largest and most uncertain reserves.
For these classes Given their size in relation to the consolidated Group and the we compared our estimated reserves to those booked by complexity of the judgements involved, our work focussed management, and sought to understand any significant differences.
on the liabilities in the UK General Insurance and Canada For the remaining classes we evaluated the methodology and General Insurance components.
assumptions, or performed a diagnostic check to identify and investigate any anomalies.
Based on the work performed and evidence obtained, we consider the methodology and assumptions used to value the non-life insurance contract liabilities to be appropriate.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 88 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Independent auditors report Continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of hard to value investments Group Refer to Audit Committees Report, Accounting policies F, T and U and Note 22 Fair Value methodology, Note 24 Securitised mortgages and related assets and Note 26 Financial Investments.
The valuation of the investment portfolio involves judgement We assessed the Directors approach to valuation for these hard to value and continues to be an area of inherent risk.
The risk is not investments by performing the following procedures: uniform for all investment types and is greatest for the We agreed data inputs to underlying documentation on a sample following, where the investments are hard to value because basis.
quoted prices are not readily available: We evaluated the methodology and assumptions used by Commercial mortgage loans UK Life.
management, including yield curves, discounted cash flows, property Equity release and UK securitised mortgage loans UK Life.
growth rates, longevity and liquidity premiums as relevant to each Structured bond-type investments France Life.
Collateralised loan obligations and non-recourse loans UK We tested the operation of data integrity and change management Life.
controls for the models, which we baseline every three years.
Using our valuation experts, we performed independent valuations for a sample of collateralised loans, non-recourse loans and structured bonds.
Based on the work performed and the evidence obtained, we consider the assumptions used by management to be appropriate.
Valuation of investments in subsidiaries and joint venture Company Refer to Financial statements of the Company and Note A-Investment in subsidiaries and joint venture.
In the Company's statement of financial position, In respect to the fair value of investments in subsidiaries and joint subsidiaries and joint venture are reported at fair value venture: estimated using applicable valuation models underpinned We understood and tested the methodology in place to determine the by the company's market capitalisation.
fair value of investments in subsidiaries and joint venture.
We tested adjustments made to the market capitalisation and The determination of the fair value is a judgemental area and underlying data inputs on a sample basis.
the investments in subsidiaries and joint venture together Used our valuation experts, to assess and test the appropriateness for comprise the largest assets in the parent companys inclusion of selected comparable companies used in the multiples statement of financial position.
based valuation model, on a sample basis.
Based on the work performed and the evidence obtained, we consider the assumptions used by management to value investments in subsidiaries and joint venture to be appropriate.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the financial reporting process and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
Using the outputs of our risk assessment, along with our understanding of Aviva, we scoped our audit based on the significance of the results and financial position of individual components relative to the Group result and financial position.
In doing so, we also considered qualitative factors and ensured we had obtained sufficient coverage across all financial statement line items in the consolidated financial statements.
Our scoping provided us with audit coverage of over 80% for both IFRS profit before tax and Group adjusted operating profit before tax and after the deduction of integration and restructuring costs 2016: 78%.
We also obtained audit coverage of 80% for Gross Written Premiums 2016: 80% and 84% for Total Assets 2016: 84%.
The Groups primary reporting format aggregates individual components into market reporting lines with supplementary information being given by business activity.
The operating segments or markets of the Group are United Kingdom Life and General Insurance, France, Poland, Italy, Ireland, Spain and Other, Canada, Asia, Aviva Investors and Other Group Activities.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each of the components by us, as the Group audit team, or auditors of the components within PwC UK or from other PwC network firms operating under our instructions.
As the Group audit team, we determined the level of involvement required at those components to be able to conclude whether sufficient and appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
In our role as Group auditors, we exercised oversight of work performed by auditors of the components including performing the following procedures: Maintained an active dialogue with reporting component audit teams throughout the year, including holding a workshop for those teams in London during the planning phase of the audit: Visited all in-scope components and undertook a detailed review of audit working papers: Attended meetings with local management: and Attended certain component Audit Committee meetings.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 89 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Independent auditors report Continued Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 147 million 2016: 140 million.
How we determined it 5% of Group adjusted operating profit 5% of IFRS profit before tax from continuing before tax attributable to shareholders operations rounded up to the nearest profits after the deduction of integration and million.
restructuring costs rounded up to the nearest million.
Rationale for benchmark applied In determining our materiality, we In determining our materiality, we considered considered financial metrics which we financial metrics which we believed to be believed to be relevant, and concluded, relevant, and concluded, consistent with last consistent with last year that Group adjusted year that profit before tax was the most operating profit before tax and after the relevant benchmark as the Company is profitdeduction of integration and restructuring orientated and users of the financial costs was the most relevant benchmark.
statements will be focussed on this benchmark.
Group adjusted operating profit presents a longer-term assessment of the performance of the entity which is more in line with the operations and time horizons of an insurer where insurance contracts and customer relationships span over multiple years.
We have concluded that it is appropriate to deduct integration and restructuring costs as Aviva incur a base level of restructuring costs, even outside times of significant restructuring.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 30 million and 120 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 5 million Group audit 2016: 5 million and 2.8 million Company audit 2016: 3.45 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this financial statements about whether the directors considered it statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Companys appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in ability to continue as a going concern.
preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 90 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Independent auditors report Continued In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors and corporate governance report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and Directors and corporate governance report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors and corporate governance report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors and corporate governance report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 43 of the Annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 59 of the Annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 60, that they consider the Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and the Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual report on page 53 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 60, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 91 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Independent auditors report Continued Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the members on 3 May 2012 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 6 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2012 to 31 December 2017.
Marcus Hine Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 7 March 2018 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Aviva plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the full annual financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 92
