156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 34 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc Opinion In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of its return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc the Company which comprise: the Income Statement: Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds: the Balance Sheet: the Cash Flow Statement: and the related notes 1 to 22.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Valuation and ownership of investments Revenue recognition - completeness of dividend income Within this report, any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year are identified with O.
The materiality that we used in the current year was 14.35m which was determined on the basis of Materiality 1% of net assets at 31 December 2017.
Scoping Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Significant changes in our approach There were no significant changes in our approach from the prior year.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going We confirm that we have nothing concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 a to the financial statements and the material to add or draw attention to in Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Company contained within the respect of these matters.
We agreed with the Directors adoption We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in of the going concern basis of accounting relation to: and we did not identify any such material the disclosures on page 5 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are uncertainties.
However, because not all being managed or mitigated: future events or conditions can be the Directors' confirmation on page 5 that they have carried out a robust assessment predicted, this statement is not a of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its guarantee as to the Companys ability to business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: continue as a going concern.
the Directors statement on page 20 of the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: 34 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 35 Independent Auditors Report Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement continued the Directors explanation on page 5 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions: or whether the Directors statements relating to going concern and the prospects of the Company required in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation and ownership of investments O Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the Key observations key audit matter The listed investments of the Company We have performed the following procedures to No misstatements were 1,440m 2016: 1,253m make up 100.3% address this key audit matter: identified which required 2016: 102.7% of total net assets 1,436m reporting to those charged with critically assessed the design and 2016: 1,220m.
Please see Accounting Policy governance in regards to the implementation of the controls over 1 b and note 10. valuation of the portfolio.
valuation and ownership of investments: Investments listed on recognised exchanges We did not identify any confirmed 100% of the valuation of the are valued at the closing bid price at the year differences when agreeing the listed investments to closing bid prices end.
Companys investment portfolio published by an independent pricing source: to the confirmation received There is a risk that investments may not be confirmed 100% of listed investments at the directly from the custodian and valued correctly or may not represent the year end to confirmations received directly depositary.
Given the nature from the custodian and depository: and and size of the balance and its importance to reviewed the internal controls report over the entity, we have considered that there is a Northern Trust, as it applied to custody and potential risk of fraud in this area.
attended the Audit Committee meeting at which the Northern Trust controls report The description of the key audit matter above was evaluated to assess the adequacy of the should be read in conjunction with the design and implementation of controls at significant issues considered by the Audit the custodian.
Revenue recognition - completeness of dividend income O Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the Key observations key audit matter Dividends from equity shares totalling 44m We have performed the following procedures to No misstatements were identified 2016: 39m are accounted for on an exaddress this key audit matter: which required reporting to those dividend date as revenue, except where: in the charged with governance in critically assessed the design and opinion of the Board, the dividend is capital in regards to the completeness of implementation of controls over revenue nature, in which case it is treated as a return of dividend income.
recognition including the Managers capital.
Please see Accounting Policy 1 c and monitoring of accuracy and completeness of Accounting policies in relation to note 3. revenue: revenue recognition were found There is a risk that revenue is incomplete and to be in line with FRS 102, the for a sample of listed investments, obtained consequently the revenue recognised in the SORP and industry peers.
ex-dividend dates and rates for dividends financial statements is misstated.
declared during the year and agreed the amounts recorded within the general ledger The description of the key audit matter above to confirm that the recognition policy has should be read in conjunction with the been applied consistently: and significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed on page 28. agreed a sample of dividend income receipts to bank statements.
Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 35 156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 36 Independent Auditors Report Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 14.35m 2016: 12.2m Significant changes in our approach 1% 2016: 1% of net assets.
Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark for Rationale for the benchmark applied investors and is the key driver of shareholder value.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 287,000 2016: 244,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in We have nothing to the Annual Report including the Strategic Report and the Directors Report, other than the financial statements and report in respect of our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
36 Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc Independent Auditors Report Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Companys financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors these matters.
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 17 April 2013 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2013 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 5 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2013 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Andrew Partridge Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor, Edinburgh, United Kingdom 26 January 2018 a The maintenance and integrity of the Aberforth Partners LLP web site is the responsibility of the partners of Aberforth Partners LLP: the work carried out by the auditor of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 37
