Financial statements Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of RSA Insurance Group plc 1 Our opinion is unmodified We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders of the We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Company at the Annual General Meeting held on 13 May 2013.
RSA Insurance Group plc the Company for the year ended The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the five 31 December 2017 which comprises the consolidated income financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our statement, consolidated and Parent statement of comprehensive ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of income, consolidated and Parent Company statement of changes the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including in equity, consolidated and Parent Company statement of the Financial Reporting Council FRC Ethical Standard as applied financial position, the consolidated and Parent Company to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited statement of cash flows and the related notes, including the by that standard were provided.
Overview In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state Materiality: 35m 2016: 35m of the Groups, and of the Parent Companys affairs as at Group financial 0.5% 2016: 0.6% of Net Earned 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year statements as Premium then ended: a whole The Group financial statements have been properly prepared Coverage 97% 2016: 97% of Net Earned in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Premium as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : The Parent Company financial statements have been properly Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Recurring risks Valuation of Insurance Act 2006: and of the Group Liabilities The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Group requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, IT systems and control Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
environment Basis for opinion Valuation of defined We conducted our audit in accordance with International benefit pension schemes Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the Valuation of deferred audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate tax assets basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
Recurring risks Recoverability of Parent of the Parent Companys investment in subsidiaries RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99 Independent auditors report continued 2 Key audit matters: Our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, which are unchanged from 2016, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Insurance liabilities Subjective valuation With the assistance of our actuarial specialists, we performed the following 2017: 9,477 million Insurance liabilities represent the single largest procedures: gross, 7,954 million liability for the Group.
Valuation of these liabilities Control design and observation: Evaluation of the governance around the net: 2016: 9,365 million is highly judgmental because it requires a number overall Group reserving process, including the scrutiny applied by the Local, gross, 7,929 million net of assumptions to be made with high estimation Regional and Group Reserving committees, as well as Group level actuarial uncertainty such as loss ratios, estimates of the reviews.
We assessed qualifications and experience of those responsible Refer to page 62 Group frequency and severity of claims and, where and examined the output of the reviews to assess the scope and depth of Audit Committee appropriate, the discount rates for longer tail these processes.
Our evaluation of the methodologies and key assumptions Report, page 112 classes of business by territory and line of for the most significant and subjective classes of business enabled us to accounting policy business.
The determination and application assess the quality of challenge applied through the Groups reserving and pages 158 to 162 of the methodology and performance of the process.
financial disclosures calculations are also complex.
Independent re-performance: Independent re-projection of the reserve A margin is added to the actuarial best estimate of balances using our own models for certain classes of business.
The insurance liabilities to make allowance for specific determination of which classes to reproject was based on risk assessment risks and uncertainties that are not specifically and consideration of the evidence available from other alternative data allowed for in establishing the actuarial best analysis procedures.
The appropriate margin to recognise is a Sector experience and Benchmarking: Comparison of assumptions, subjective judgement and estimate taken by the reserving methodologies and estimates of losses to expectations based on directors, based on the perceived uncertainty and the Groups historical experience, current trends, externally-derived data potential for volatility in the underlying claims.
and benchmarking against industry trends including information relating to Certain lines of business have greater inherent forthcoming legislation that may affect claims settlement speed or amount.
uncertainty, for example those where claims Sensitivity analysis: Review of sensitivity analysis over key judgements and emerge more slowly over time, or where there is assumptions, such as the discount rates for longer tail classes of business greater variability in claim settlement amounts and Periodic Payment Order projections.
and potential exposure to large losses due to Margin evaluation: Evaluation of the appropriateness of the Reserve effect of uncertain or unknown future events.
Committees recommended margin to be applied to the actuarial best This includes Abuse, Deafness classes: UK estimate.
In order to do this we assessed the Directors approach to, and Professional and Financial Risk classes: the Danish analysis performed, in setting the margin with respect to recognised Workers Compensation class: the Swedish actuarial methods.
In particular we considered the allowance for uncertainties Personal Accident classes: the Canadian General inherent in the data and assumptions in developing the actuarial best Liability class: and classes of business affected estimate through inquiry with the Directors and with respect to our by emerging industry issues such as the impact understanding of the Group and our own sector experience of approaches of Periodic Payment Orders which are akin to to setting the margin and the level of margin held by the Groups peers.
annuities with longevity and inflation risk on In addition to the above the audit team performed procedures to assess the UK motor business.
completeness and accuracy of the data used in the calculations to estimate insurance liabilities: Data capture The valuation of insurance liabilities depends on Control observation and operation: Evaluation and testing of key controls complete and accurate data about the volume, designed to ensure the integrity of the data used in the actuarial reserving amount and pattern of current and historical process including both current and prior year case reserve data.
The claims since they are often used to form controls included reconciliations between data in the actuarial reserving expectations about future claims.
If the data used systems and data in the policy administration systems.
We tested controls in calculating insurance liabilities, or for forming through inspecting or re-performing the Groups reconciliations.
judgements over key assumptions, is not In addition, we tested the operation of controls over the valuation of complete and accurate then material impacts on individual claims reserves, such as large loss review controls, internal peer the valuation of insurance liabilities may arise.
We assessed whether such controls were performed in line with the Groups policies and with reference to underlying claims data.
Tests of detail: Re-performance of reconciliations between the claims data recorded in the policy administration systems and the data used in the actuarial reserving calculations to ensure the integrity of the data used in the actuarial reserving process.
We also compared samples of claims case reserves, including large loss reserves, to appropriate documentation, such as reports from loss adjusters in order to test valuation of individual claims reserves.
We used sampling techniques and data analysis to focus our procedures on significant or anomalous claims.
Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the insurance contract liabilities.
Our results We found the valuation of the insurance liabilities to be acceptable.
100 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements The risk Our response IT systems and control Processing errors With the assistance of our own IT audit specialists, our procedures included: environment Many financial reporting controls depend on the Controls design and observation: Testing general IT controls around system Refer to page 62 correct functioning of operational and financial access, change management and computer operations within specific Group Audit IT systems.
If these systems or controls fail, applications pertinent to the financial statements by assessing if Committee Report.
a significant risk of error in reported financial appropriate policies are in place and adhered to by inspecting supporting information can arise from the failure to transfer evidence.
Where general IT controls are not operating effectively, we data appropriately between systems or addressed the increased risk of financial statement misstatement by inappropriate changes being made to financial extending the scope of our work.
This included assessing the operation of data or systems.
controls over changes or transactions being recorded in the systems and testing manual compensating controls, such as reconciliations between This is an area of significant risk in our audit systems and other information sources, through re-performance or due to the complexity of the IT infrastructure, inspection.
particularly in the UK and Scandinavia, where there are legacy systems which require increased Extended scope: Where general IT controls and compensating manual manual inputs, relative to more automated controls did not operate to mitigate a risk, we performed additional processes.
substantive testing, such as using extended sample sizes and performing data analysis routines over impacted accounts to test the integrity of the transactional level data that is flowing into the Group financial statements.
Our results Our testing identified deficiencies in the design and operation of certain controls.
We compensated for this by extending our detailed testing over and above that originally planned, and this work was completed satisfactorily.
Pensions and Subjective valuation With the assistance of our own pension actuarial specialists, our procedures post-retirement Small changes in the assumptions and estimates included: obligations used can have significant effect on the valuation Membership data: Compared the data received from the third party 2017: 8,878 million, of the Groups pension obligations and therefore administrator of the pension scheme to the data sent to the third party 2016: 8,893 million the amount of the pension and post retirement external expert who valued the pension obligation.
obligations and the Groups financial position.
Refer to page 62 Group Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the key assumptions such as The valuation of defined benefit pension discount rate, inflation rate and life expectancy against externally derived Audit Committee obligations is dependent upon complete and Report, page 116 data.
accurate data about the members of the pension accounting policy and Assessing valuers credentials: Evaluating the Groups external valuers scheme.
pages 163 to 168 competence, objectivity, capability and scope of work.
Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the defined pension obligation to these assumptions.
Our results We found the valuation of the pension and post-retirement obligations to be acceptable.
Deferred tax assets Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: 2017: 220 million: 2016: The recoverability of the recognised deferred tax Control design and observation: Evaluating the internal review and 216 million asset is dependent on the future profitability of challenge process the Group undertakes during the development of the the UK business, and RSAI plc as the taxable legal operational plan and by the Group Risk Function during the approval Refer to page 62 Group entity, in particular.
There is inherent uncertainty process, and the extent to which the Group considered alternative Audit Committee involved in developing the operational plan upon outcomes.
Report, page 115 which forecast future taxable profits are based.
Historical comparisons and our sector experience: Comparing the expected accounting policy and These forecasts determine the extent to which growth rates to the Groups approved operating plan and assessing the pages 153 to 154 deferred tax assets are or are not recognised.
accuracy of that forecasting process in the past.
We considered whether financial disclosures.
projected margins are achievable with reference to the businesss recent performance and operating plans, as well as our own industry knowledge.
Sensitivity testing: Sensitivity testing of taxable profits to assumptions such as the Combined Operating Ratio.
Own tax expertise: With the support of our own tax specialists and their knowledge of tax legislation, we also assessed the extent to which projected profits were taxable, in particular the Groups assumptions about how accumulated tax losses and other associated tax attributes can be utilised within the group against UK business, and RSAI plc as the taxable legal entity, in particular.
Assessing transparency: Assessing adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the assumptions supporting the deferred tax asset valuation and recognition.
Our results As a result of our work we found the level of deferred tax assets recognised to be acceptable.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 101 Independent auditors report continued Recoverability of Parent Subjective valuation Our procedures included: Companys investment The Parent Company holds its investment in Comparing valuations: We compared the market value of the Group, used as in subsidiaries subsidiaries at fair value, representing 72% the base for the Companys valuation, to an independent source of market 2017: 5,765 million, 2016: 65% of the companys total assets.
2016: 4,970 million For the most significant subsidiary, fair value Historical comparisons: In respect of the adjusting items, we compared the is based on market value of the Group, after expected cash flows to the Groups operating plan, and considered the Refer to page 182 adjusting for certain items.
Whilst there is not historical accuracy of previous projections.
accounting policy, a high degree of subjectivity, the estimation Investment in Sector experience: With the support of our own valuation specialists, we of some of the adjusting items is dependent Subsidiaries and page independently recalculated the weighted average cost of capital used to on assumptions of future cash flows discounted 184 financial discount the cash flows to determine the value of the adjusting items.
Amount should be the full Our results investment balance We found the assessment of the recoverability of the Parent Companys investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
102 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the Telephone conference meetings were also held with these scope of our audit component auditors and with others that were not physically visited, being those which are out of scope.
At these visits and Determining Group materiality meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit team were The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was discussed in more detail and the Group audit team reviewed key set at 35m 2016: 35m determined with reference to a elements of the component auditors work papers.
Any further benchmark of net earned premiums of 6,605m 2016: 6,340m, work required by the Group audit team was then performed by of which it represents 0.5% 2016: 0.6%.
We continue to believe the component auditor that the benchmark of net earned premiums is a fair reflection of revenue from the Groups operations as it is not subject to the volatility arising from multi-year insurance contracts that net written premium would be.
We have not considered profit before Net Earned Premium Materiality tax to be a suitable benchmark due to historical volatility in this 6,605 m 2016: 6,340m 35m 2016: 35m metric.
35m Whole financial Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a statements whole was set at 31.5m 2016: 35m, determined with reference materiality to a benchmark of net assets and chosen to be lower than 2016: 35m materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole.
It represents 0.5% of the stated benchmark 2016: 0.6%.
22.5m We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or Range of materiality uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 1.75m, in at four components 15m-28m addition to other identified misstatements that warranted 2016: 15m-28m reporting on qualitative grounds.
1.75m Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by Misstatements Net Earned Premium reported to the audit component auditors for four 2016: four of the Groups nine 2016: Group materiality committee 2016: 1.75m nine reporting components, being those located within the UK, Ireland, Canada and Scandinavia.
The Groups central functions were not individually significant enough to require a full scope audit for group reporting purposes, but did present specific Net Earned Premium Insurance Contract Liabilities individual risks that needed to be addressed.
As such, specified 97% 2016: 97% 98% 2016: 98% risk-focused procedures were performed on investments, treasury and reinsurance, which included agreeing financial information to supporting documentation.
For the residual four components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the 97% 98% percentages illustrated opposite.
For the remaining components we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re- 97% 98% examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks Total Assets Group profit before Tax detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The 98% 2016: 98% 93% 2016: 91% Group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 15m to 28m 2016: 15m to 28m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
All 2016: all of the audits of reporting components were performed 34% by the component auditors.
34% The Group audit team visited four 2016: five component locations, being those in the UK, Ireland, Canada and Denmark 64% 91% 64% 2016: UK, Ireland, Canada, Denmark and Sweden to assess the audit risk and planned audit approach.
Instead of a site visit, the Swedish team came and met with the Group audit team 93% in Denmark.
2017 2016 Full scope for Full scope for Residual group audit group audit components purposes purposes Specified Specified risk-focused risk-focused audit procedures audit procedures RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 Independent auditors report continued 4 We have nothing to report on going concern over the period of their assessment, including any related We are required to report to you if: disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in note 1 to the financial Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Companys statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of Corporate governance disclosures at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial We are required to report to you if: statements: or we have identified material inconsistencies between the The related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 94 knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced We have nothing to report in these respects.
and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, 5 We have nothing to report on the other information in the business model and strategy: or Annual Report The directors are responsible for the other information presented the section of the annual report describing the work of the in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven conclusion thereon.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Listing Rules for our review.
consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, We have nothing to report in these respects.
the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based 6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we solely on that work we have not identified material are required to report by exception misstatements in the other information.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Strategic report and directors report adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Based solely on our work on the other information: Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic received from branches not visited by us: or Report and the Directors Report: the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the in our opinion the information given in those reports for the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and agreement with the accounting records and returns: or in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law with the Companies Act 2006. are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we Directors remuneration report require for our audit.
In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the We have nothing to report in these respects.
7 Respective responsibilities Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Directors responsibilities Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 98, nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial The directors confirmation within the Groups viability statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair statement page 93 that they have carried out a robust view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from those that would threaten its business model, future material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing performance, solvency and liquidity: the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going The principal risks disclosures describing these risks and concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless The directors explanation in the Companys viability statement they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to what period they have done so and why they considered that do so.
period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 104 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements Auditors responsibilities 8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether responsibilities the financial statements as a whole are free from material This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities see in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not to the Companys members those matters we are required to guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic or for the opinions we have formed.
decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Stuart Crisp Senior Statutory Auditor A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor website at www.
Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square Irregularities ability to detect London Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws and E14 5GL regulations irregularities that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
We identified relevant areas of laws and 21 February 2018 regulations from our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
In addition, we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of regulatory capital, conduct, and market abuse regulations, and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the financial and regulated nature of the Groups activities.
With the exception of any known or possible noncompliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of noncompliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105
