106 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Independent auditors report to the members of National Express Group PLC Opinion on financial statements of National Express Group PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements that we have audited comprise: the Group Income Statement: the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Group Statement of Cash Flows: the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the related notes 1 to 39 for the Group financial statements: and the related notes 1 to 19 for the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Goodwill and fixed asset impairment: North American insurance and other claims provisions: In the prior year we identified pensions and fuel hedge accounting as key audit matters.
These have not been identified as key audit matters in the current year due to the low history of misstatement and a reduction in the complexity and risk in these balances during the current year.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements in the current year was 10.0 million which was determined on the basis of normalised profit before tax.
Materiality represents 5.0% of this profit metric 2016: 5.1%.
Scoping Full scope audit work was completed on a divisional sub-consolidation basis for UK, North America and Spain including Morocco.
Full scope audit procedures have been performed on the Parent Company financial statements.
All other parts of the Group have been subject to analytical review procedures.
The four operating divisions and the Group head office function contributed 100% 2016: 100% of Group revenue and Group operating profit and 99% 2016: 99% of Group net assets.
The group is organised into four operating divisions, each of which has its own sub-consolidation, plus the head office function.
Audit work for these components was completed to levels of materiality between 3.2 million and 7.2 million.
The components account for 100% of Group revenue and operating profit and 99% of group assets.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 107 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement on page 41 about whether they considered We confirm that we have nothing material to it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them report, add or draw attention to in respect and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and companys of these matters.
ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were We confirm that we have nothing material to consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the report, add or draw attention to in respect knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the groups and of these matters.
the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 38 to 40 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 36 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
108 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Independent auditors report to the members of National Express Group PLC continued Impairment of goodwill and other fixed assets Key audit matter description Total goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2017 were 2,601.6 million.
The most significant balances relate to the Spain and Morocco division 1,187.4 million and the North America division 1,174.4 million.
There is a risk surrounding the recoverability of these balances, as assessed annually by management as part of their impairment review, using discounted cash flows on a value in use basis.
The key judgements in assessing goodwill and other non-current assets for impairment are the discount rate, the perpetual growth rate used and more specifically ALSAs cash flow impact due to the Spanish concession renewals.
The value in use models are sensitive to changes in these rates, both of which must reflect a long-term view of underlying growth in each respective economy.
We note that estimating a value in use is inherently judgemental, and a range of assumptions can reasonably be applied in determining an appropriate discount rate and perpetual growth rate to use.
In Spain the risk in relation to the Spanish concession renewals arises due to the potential pricing impact after the renewals and the subsequent margin recovery.
The key judgements are around whether management will retain the concessions and what the margin will be if it does.
The Audit Committee Report on page 60 refers to goodwill and fixed asset impairment as a key judgement considered by the Audit Committee.
Note 2 to the financial statements sets out the Groups accounting policy for testing goodwill for impairment.
The basis for the impairment reviews is outlined in note 14 to the financial statements, including details of the pre-tax discount rate and terminal growth rate used.
Note 14 to the financial statements also includes details of the extent to which the goodwill and fixed asset impairment test is sensitive to changes in the key inputs.
How the scope of our audit Our procedures for challenging managements methodology and assumptions focused on the Groups responded to the key audit interests in Spain and Morocco and North America and included: matter validating the integrity of the impairment models through testing of the mechanical accuracy and verifying the application of the input assumptions: understanding the underlying process used to determine the risk adjusted discount rates: assessing the appropriateness of any changes to assumptions since the prior period: challenging the cash flow forecasts with reference to historical forecasts, actual performance and independent evidence to support any significant expected future changes to the business: understanding and assessing the appropriateness of the key asumptions used in the Spanish concession renewals process and the expected margin impact in the Spanish division: working with our valuation specialists to benchmark the discount rates and perpetuity growth rates applied to external macro-economic and market data.
This involved consideration of the impact of territory-specific risk adjustments to the discount rate and perpetuity growth rates versus the risk adjustments made to the underlying cash flows: and assessing the appropriateness of the disclosures included in the financial statements including the sensitivity analysis provided.
Key observations We determined that there is currently sufficient headroom for both the Spain and Morocco division and the North America division such that we concur with management that no impairment is required.
We conclude that the assumptions applied in the impairment models, when taken in aggregate, are within our acceptable range.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 109 North American insurance and other claims Key audit matter description The company operates a transportation business and therefore requires third party insurance.
The group operates two levels of insurance, a self-covering level and an outsourced level.
Of the total Group claims provision of 114.1 million at 31 December 2017, 109.2 million relates to the North American division.
This reflects historical claims being managed by the Group, as well as provision for new claims identified in the year, including amounts arising through acquisitions in the year that have required separate fair value consideration.
Estimation of insurance and other claims provisions, including those arising on acquisition, is highly judgemental and is based on assessment of the expected settlement of known claims together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date.
The measurement of the self-insured claims provision in North America uses a combination of actuarial assumptions around loss development and management judgement to ensure that the Group is appropriately provided.
Given the level of complexity and judgement involved in making these estimations there is a risk of material misstatement, whether due to error or inappropriate management bias, and therefore the eventual outcome could be materially different from that estimated and provided for.
The Audit Committee Report on page 60 refers to North American insurance and other claims provisions as a key judgement considered by the Audit Committee.
This area has also been highlighted as a key accounting estimate and judgement in note 2 to the financial statements.
Details of the Group claims provision are given in note 26 to the financial statements.
How the scope of our audit We used our actuarial specialists to challenge the assumptions inherent in the valuation produced by the responded to the key audit Groups actuary in North America for the high-volume lower value claims, such as the loss development matter factors and ultimate expected losses, and to re-perform the actuarial calculation to develop a valuation range.
Additionally we have assessed the experts competence and considered their independence and objectivity.
For the individually large claims not subject to actuarial review, we discussed the nature of each claim with the US general counsel and those responsible for claims handling and tested a sample of items to independent third party reports to assess the expected range of possible outcomes.
This included testing the fair value of provisions recognised on acquisitions during the year.
We compared the overall level of provision recorded to the range determined by management and the Groups actuary, to conclude whether the level of provision was appropriate.
This involved consideration of the audit evidence supporting the range as well as the independent assessment of the range for higher-volume lower value claims produced by our actuarial specialists.
Key observations As part of our detailed audit work testing the various aspects of the provision, including new amounts recognised at fair value on acquisition and the income statement charge for the year, we did not identify any material exceptions.
As a result we believe the balance sheet provision is materially in line with our expectations.
110 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Independent auditors report to the members of National Express Group PLC continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality Group materiality as 10.0 million 2016: 8.9 million Parent company materiality as 7.4 million 2016: 6.8 million Basis for determining 5.0% 2016: 5.3% of normalised profit before tax.
This materiality level equates to less than 1% of equity.
materiality Normalised profit before tax is disclosed on the face of the Group income statement where it is reconciled to statutory profit before tax.
Note 11 to the financial statements outlines profit before tax of 4.4 million for discontinued operations.
Parent company materiality was set at 74% of Group materiality and equates to 0.8% of the Companys netassets.
Rationale for the benchmark Normalised profit is a key performance measure for management, investors and the analyst community applied which facilitates the users understanding of the underlying trading performance.
Normalised results are defined as the statutory results excluding intangible amortisation for acquired businesses and profit for the year from discontinued operations and consequent UK restructuring.
Net assets is considered an appropriate benchmark for the parent Company given that it is mainly a holding Company.
Materiality Group materiality 10m Component materiality range Adjusted PBT 200m 7.2m to 3.2m Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.35m Adjusted PBT Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 350,000 2016: 300,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 111 An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, as in the prior year, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at the four operating divisions and the Group head office function.
Each operating division produces its own sub-consolidation and was subject to an audit that was scoped relevant to its component materiality level, which was between 3.2 million and 7.2 million for both the current and prior year.
This audit work was principally performed by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited member firms, with a number of non Deloitte component auditors reporting to Deloitte Spain for the Spain and Morocco divisional audit.
The Group head office work was performed to a component materiality level of 6.4 million, consistent with the prior year.
The four operating divisions and the Group head office function contributed 100% 2016: 100% of Group revenue and Group operating profit and 99% 2015: 99% of Group net assets.
Group-level analytical review procedures were performed over the amounts held in the Bahrain joint venture.
At the Parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor and or a senior member of the audit team visits each of the three non-UK divisions where the Group audit scope was focused at least once a year in addition to the work performed at the Group head office.
In relation to the current year audit the Senior Statutory Auditor and or a senior member of the audit team visited Spain, North America and Germany at least once.
Likewise the Group audit team has maintained appropriate oversight over both UK divisions for component reporting and reviewing purposes.
Outside of the planned visits regular discussions were held with the component audit teams throughout the year to direct and supervise the planning and execution of their audit work.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises We have nothing to report in respect the information included in the Annual Report, other than the Financial Statements and of thesematters.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
112 Financial Statements Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Independent auditors report to the members of National Express Group PLC continued Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them inanauditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, wehave not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect ofthesematters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain We have nothing to report in respect disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors ofthesematters.
remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements 113 Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Board on 14 June 2011 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2011 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 7, covering the years ending 31 December 2011 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Stephen Griggs Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 1 March 2018
