"CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report to the members of Marshalls plc Opinion In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and ofthe Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ""IFRSs"" as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 ""Reduced Disclosure Framework"": and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation."
"We have audited the Financial Statements of Marshalls plc the ""Parent Company"" and its subsidiaries the ""Group"" which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets: the Consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: and the related notes 1 to 42."
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
"The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 ""Reduced Disclosure Framework"" United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice."
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard werenot provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key audit matters the carrying value of inventory: and acquisition accounting, in particular the identification and valuation of intangible assets within the CPM Group Limited acquisition and the determination of other fair value adjustments to the net assets within the acquired business..
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year identified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group Financial Statements was 2.5 million which was determined on the basis of 5 per cent of profit before tax.
The Group audit team performed the audit of all UK components of the Group which accounted for 95 per cent of Scoping Group revenues, 99 per cent of Group net assets and 100 per cent of profit before tax.
Marshalls NV, the subsidiary based in Belgium, was audited by Deloitte Antwerp under the supervision of the Group audit team.
The Group acquired CPM Group Limited during the year and our audit scope has been extended to include the Significant changes in audit of this company and we have identified an additional significant audit risk for the current year relating to the ourapproach acquisition accounting for this transaction, in particular the identification and valuation of intangible assets within the acquired business.
There have been no other significant changes in our audit approach since the prior year.
Taking account of our past experience from our audit work relating to the completeness of customer rebate expense, including the historical accuracy of management estimates of year-end rebate accruals and the relatively factual process of calculating these accruals, we concluded that this area was no longer a key audit matter for our 2017 audit.
MARSHALLS PLC 66 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the Directors Statement in Note 1 to the Financial Statements about whether they considered We confirm that we have itappropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any nothing material to material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve report, add or draw months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
attention to in respect of these matters.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors Statements and considering whether they were consistent with the We confirm that we have knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the nothing material to Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required report, add or draw tostate whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: attention to in respect ofthese matters.
the disclosures on pages 20 to 24 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed ormitigated: the Dir ectors confirmation on page 21 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Dir ectors explanation on page 21 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material mis-statement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Carrying value of inventory The Group is primarily involved in the manufacture and sale of landscape and natural stone products, selling to Key audit matter Public Sector, Commercial and Domestic end users.
It records inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable value, description carrying a large amount of inventories in order to meet customer needs on demand.
The Group offers a wide range of non-perishable products that are manufactured and subsequently stored in large quantities at various locations, and therefore carries a high level of inventories at any given point.
A risk exists that the sales prices of inventories, particularly those which are aged or in excess of specific customer requirements, may need to be discounted before they can be sold.
The risk of discounting, combined with potential costs to move the inventories to a location where demand exists, may result in the inventories being sold at below cost.
The Directors are responsible for making judgements surrounding: the length of time required to sell inventories: the level of discounts necessary to sell inventories: whether inventories will need to be discounted below their cost price: and the appropriateness of standard costs and the level of provisioning applied.
The carrying value of the Groups finished goods inventory is 77.9 million, as disclosed in Note 11, and is noted asan area considered by the Audit Committee in their report on page 48.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Marshalls plc Carrying value of inventory continued We have: How the scope of our auditresponded to the r eviewed business processes surrounding the recording of inventory quantities and managements review of the keyaudit matter valuation and provisioning of inventory items: t ested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of certain key controls relating to purchasing, recording of inventory quantities and inventory provisioning across the Group: att ended inventory counts at key locations to observe the count procedure being undertaken and inspect the condition of inventories: selec ted a sample of inventory items and agreed key inputs in the valuation such as materials costs, rebates, shipping costs, the overheads absorbed and expected sales prices to supporting documentation: t ested the calculation of overheads absorption into inventory compared to actual overhead costs incurred: and used data analytic t echniques to compare sales by product line to inventory cost to identify any inventory sold for less than its cost.
The results of our testing were satisfactory.
We concur with the basis of valuation of inventory and are satisfied that Key observations the level of inventory provisions is appropriate.
Acquisition accounting Key audit matter The Group completed the acquisition of the entire share capital of CPM Group Limited during the year.
The acquisition is accounted for in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations and this requires judgement description to be applied in the process of identification and valuation of intangible assets and the determination of other fair value adjustments to the net assets within the acquired business.
This process is inherently complex and a risk exists that intangible assets may be incorrectly identified and valued.
As described in Note 22 to the Financial Statements, the provisional fair value of the net assets acquired has been estimated at 1.1 million and intangible assets have been identified and valued at 7.2 million.
We have: How the scope of our auditresponded to the e valuated the design and implementation of key controls relating to managements process for identification keyaudit matter and valuation of intangible assets and for determining other fair value adjustments: r eviewed the accounting entries recorded by agreeing to managements acquisition accounting paper and workings and the sale and purchase agreement SPA : ag reed cash paid in respect of consideration to bank statements and confirmed the total amount of consideration by reference to the SPA: r eviewed the SPA for any unusual clauses that may have accounting consequences and assessed the completeness of acquisition adjustments: t ested the significant fair value adjustments recorded in respect of the business acquired by reference to supporting third party evidence: used our valuation specialists t o review and challenge the process applied by management for determining the separable intangible assets and to assess the appropriateness of the valuation methodologies adopted and the discount rate applied in the valuation calculations: and assessed the basis upon which management det ermine the useful economic life of each intangible asset, considering any contradictory evidence and benchmarking against external evidence.
Based on our procedures we concur that the judgements made by management in identifying and valuing Key observations intangible assets within the acquired business, and for determining fair value adjustments, are reasonable.
MARSHALLS PLC 68 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 96 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of mis-statement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of areasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements 2.5 million 2016: 2.3 million.
Materiality 5 per cent 2016: 5 per cent of pre-tax profit.
0.5 per cent of net assets which is capped at 40 per cent Basis for determining 2016: 40 per cent of Group materiality.
materiality In our professional judgement, profit before tax is a As a holding company, net assets are considered to be a Rationale for the principal benchmark within the Financial Statements primary benchmark.
benchmark applied that is relevant to users of the Financial Statements.
Group materiality 2.5m PBT 52m Component materiality range 0.75m to 2.1m 4 I PBT Group materiality Audit Committee reporting threshold 0.1m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 100,000 2016: 100,000 for the Group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Wealso report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of Marshalls plc An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material mis-statement both at the Group and component level.
In the current year, the scope of our work has been extended to take into account the acquisition of CPM Group Limited.
The Group and Parent Company audits are performed at the Groups head office in Elland, West Yorkshire.
All subsidiaries of the Group except Marshalls NV, based in Belgium, and CPM Group Limited, based in Somerset are accounted for and audited in the UK at the Groups head office.
The Group audit team performed the audit of all UK components including CPM Group Limited, which accounted for 95 per cent 2016: 96 per cent of Group revenue, 99 per cent 2016: 98 per cent of Group net assets and 100 per cent 2016: 98 per cent of Group profit before tax.
Marshalls NV accounted for the remaining revenue, net assets and profit before tax of the Group and was audited by Deloitte Antwerp under the supervision of the Group audit team to a component materiality of 0.75 million.
The senior statutory auditor has been involved in the planning, risk assessment and reporting procedures for all of the Groups components including the Groups Belgium subsidiary and members of the Group audit team have participated in the detailed group planning and close meetings for the Belgium subsidiary.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included We have nothing to report in the Annual Report, other than the Financial Statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially mis-stated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material mis-statements, we are required to determine whether there is a material mis-statement in the Financial Statements or a material mis-statement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material mis-statement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors Statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the Auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material mis-statement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material mis-statement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors Report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but isnot a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material mis-statement when it exists.
Mis-statements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
MARSHALLS PLC 70 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material mis-statements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors in respect of these matters.
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board on 20 May 2015 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ending 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and re-appointments of the firm is 3 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the Auditors Report with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Christopher Robertson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Manchester, UK 14 March 2018 MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 71
