Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the shareholders of Direct Line Insurance Group plc Opinion In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the Groups and Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017, and of the Groups profit for the year then ended The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the IASB and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts, comprise of: the Consolidated Income Statement the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 41 on the Consolidated financial statements, and the related notes 1 to 18 on the Parent Company financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, with regards to the Parent Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that no non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Key audit matters Valuation of insurance reserves 1 The frequency and severity of bodily injury excess claims 2 The inflation and discount rate assumptions for valuing PPOs Valuation of intangible assets Valuation of investments not held at fair value Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 28.0 million which approximates 5.2% of three year average profit before tax from Ongoing operations.
Scoping Our Group audit scoping included two entities being subject to a full scope audit and a further two entities being subject to an audit of specified account balances.
These four entities represent the principal business units and account for 99% of the Groups net assets, 100% of the Groups gross earned premium and 98% of the Groups profit before tax.
Significant changes Last year our report included key audit matters relating to Change and IT and the setting of propensity in our approach and severity assumptions when valuing PPO liabilities.
We determined that the scale of offshoring and outsourcing has not materially changed in the year, and the processes and controls that had been offshored or outsourced and the Groups oversight thereof were now embedded in the organisation.
Following the Ogden discount rate change, the propensity and severity assumptions represented a reduced risk in comparison to previous audits.
Through performing our detailed risk assessment for the 2017 audit, we refined our key audit matters to focus on inflation and discount rate assumptions when valuing PPOs and on the valuation of intangible assets.
COM 105 Independent Auditors report to the shareholders of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risk and viability statements Going concern We have reviewed the Directors statement on page 103 to the financial statements about whether they We confirm that considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their we have nothing material to report, identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue to add or draw do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
attention to in We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation respect of these to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent matters.
with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the We confirm that knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation we have nothing material to report, of the Directors assessment of the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, add or draw we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: attention to in the disclosures on pages 24 and 25 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being respect of these managed or mitigated matters.
the Directors confirmation on page 57 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 23 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon.
We do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation of insurance reserve Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, page 118 accounting policies and page 156 financial disclosures.
The Groups insurance reserves total 4.2 billion 2016: 4.7 billion.
The determination of the value of the insurance reserves requires significant judgement in the selection of key actuarial methodologies and assumptions.
Small changes in these methodologies or assumptions can materially impact the valuation of these liabilities.
We have identified the following two key areas of focus for our audit given their significance to the Groups result and the level of judgement involved.
We have also identified these as potential fraud risk areas.
1 The frequency and severity of excess bodily injury claims: Key audit matter description The insurance reserve valuation for bodily injury excess claims has a significant impact on the Groups results, with the ultimate number of large bodily injury claims being inherently uncertain and driven by a number of factors.
These include the completeness and accuracy of source data, the transparency of any changes in the reporting of excess claims, and actuarial assumptions being consistent with emerging data, internal processes and market factors.
Furthermore, the reduction in the Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75% in February 2017 has impacted on the historical consistency of bodily injury excess data by causing a step-change in incurred claims and potentially affecting claimant reporting behaviour.
As typical actuarial techniques rely on the projection of historical data, this rate change increases the level of uncertainty in the Groups modelled reserves for bodily injury excess claims which increases the susceptibility of the balance to material misstatement due to error and fraud.
106 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We have gained a detailed understanding of the end to end claims and reserving process, and assessed the design and implementation of selected controls.
We have also tested the operating effectiveness for actuarial data reconciliations and key management review controls over the reserving process.
Our work included attendance at the January Reserve Review Committee in order to observe a key management review control.
We have tested the completeness and accuracy of the underlying data used in the Groups actuarial calculations and the actuarial data used by Deloitte actuarial specialists by performing reconciliations on the data back to the financial ledger.
Having done this, we worked with those specialists to: assess and challenge the methodologies and key assumptions, and their underlying rationale, adopted by the Group review the estimated impact on reserves of recent paid and incurred claim developments using our in-house reserve software perform analytical procedures and diagnostic testing in challenging the reserving impact pre and post the change in Ogden discount rate: and inspect the Groups actuarial models and perform sensitivity testing and peer benchmarking on key assumptions Key observations We have determined the estimate for the ultimate value of large bodily claims to be reasonable.
In making this determination we observed that the frequency and severity assumptions used in determining this ultimate value are reasonable, albeit slightly prudent.
2 The inflation and discount rate assumptions for valuing PPOs Key audit matter description The Group is required to settle a proportion of large bodily injury claims as PPOs rather than lump sum payments.
The valuation of PPOs has a material impact on the financial statements, with these liabilities totalling 898.7 million 2016: 983.0 million on a discounted gross basis as detailed in note 2.
PPO liabilities are sensitive to the choice of inflation and discount rate used.
These assumptions require significant management judgement which increases the susceptibility of the balance to material misstatement due to error and fraud.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We have gained a detailed understanding over the setting of these assumptions and assessed the design and implementation of key governance controls surrounding the setting of the PPO inflation rate and discount rate.
In addition, we tested the operating effectiveness of a direct and precise business control, performed weekly, over the completeness of the PPO listing: this is a key data input which has a material impact on the PPO assumptions and hence the valuation.
We have worked with our actuarial specialists to: review and challenge the Groups PPO inflation assumption through inquiries with the Actuarial Director, reviewing relevant supporting documentation and benchmarking against market economic data review the Groups sensitivity testing on the PPO inflation assumption, requesting additional sensitivity testing from management where required review and challenge the selected discount rate with reference to current and future performance of the assets backing the PPO liabilities: and benchmark the selected discount rate against peers Key observations We have determined that the inflation and discount rate assumptions used in the calculation of the PPO claims reserve are in the middle of a reasonable range.
Given the current low yield environment we determined that these assumptions continue to require close monitoring going forward.
COM 107 Independent Auditors report to the shareholders of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued Valuation of intangible assets Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, page 119 accounting policies and page 147 financial disclosures.
Key audit matter description The Group continues to invest in initiatives and systems with the aim of improving the customer experience, supporting growth and increasing efficiency.
This investment spans policy, pricing, payment and other related data and digital systems across the business.
Following the appointment of a system integrator during the year, the Group has decided to rework certain elements of the original capital expenditure already incurred on the assets, aimed at ensuring the initiatives achieve the targeted performance levels.
Management identified this rework as an impairment indicator and performed a detailed review which resulted in an impairment charge of 56.9 million 2016: 39.3 million, bringing the valuation of intangible assets to 258.8 million 2016: 297.6 million.
In performing this impairment assessment, the assets were tested for impairment as part of the assets cash generating unit CGU in accordance with IAS 36 as the future cash flows will not be generated independently from the Motor, Home and Rescue and other personal lines CGUs.
In addition, a significant level of judgement is required in determining the valuation of this impairment charge given the uncertainty over end-state system architecture and successful project delivery.
As a result of these factors we identified the valuation of these intangible assets as a potential fraud risk.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We tested the design and implementation of key controls over the impairment of intangible assets.
This included senior management review and approval of the impairment review and year end impairment charge.
In addition we performed the following audit procedures: we held inquiries with system consultants, inspected internal reports, system architecture maps and meeting minutes in order to challenge management on which components of the capital expenditure incurred to date will ultimately be used in the end-state system.
We also engaged our IT consultants to assess the feasibility of the IT architecture in delivering the expected benefits across the Group we assessed whether the initiatives and systems under development are expected to generate cash flows independently from other groups of assets and the wider business.
We performed an independent assessment of whether the future cash flows will be generated independently to evaluate the appropriateness of testing the asset as part of the assets CGU: and we challenged managements forecasted future cash flows for each CGU through assessing historical forecasting accuracy, holding inquiries with management, inspecting the Groups five year strategic plan and benchmarking key assumptions against market data where applicable.
We then engaged our valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of the discount rate used in the value in use calculation Key observations We have determined that the 56.9 million impairment charge is reasonable.
While we observed that there is still uncertainty in the final end-state architecture design, based on the information available to date we deem the feasibility of successful project delivery and the expected benefits thereof to be reasonable.
We concurred with management that the assets future cash flows will not be generated independently and the recoverable amount should therefore be tested as part of those CGUs.
We observed that the forecasted future cash flows and the discount rate were reasonable and that no further impairment is required.
Valuation of investments not held at fair value Refer to page 62 Audit Committee Report, page 120 accounting policies and page 153 financial disclosures.
Key audit matter description We have identified a key audit matter for investments relating to the valuation of credit asset portfolios that are not held at fair value totalling 589.0 million 2016: 501.8 million as detailed in note 26.
Our work primarily focused on the Groups commercial real estate loan, infrastructure debt and private placement bond portfolios.
These debt instruments are carried at amortised cost and represent a higher credit risk relative to the majority of DLGs investment portfolio.
During the year, the Group recognised an impairment provision totalling 9.5 million 2016: nil which arose from the cessation of interest on non-performing credit assets.
Management judgement is required in determining if an incurred loss event has occurred and there is significant uncertainty in determining the fair value of the credit assets in the instance an event has occurred.
As a result we identified the valuation of investments not held at fair value as a key audit matter.
How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We have assessed the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of the key controls that mitigate the risk over the valuation of investments not held at fair value.
Our work included attendance at the year-end impairment review meeting in order to observe the operation of a key management review control.
108 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In addition we performed the following audit procedures: traced a sample of interest payments recognised to bank statements to test for default or delinquency in interest payments independently calculated the fair value for a sample of assets to identify any significant decreases in fair value below book cost: and challenged management on credit assets of interest where indicators could point to issuer financial difficulty, obtaining evidence to assess whether the position taken by management is reasonable Key observations We have determined that the 9.5 million impairment charge arising on non-performing credit assets is reasonable.
In performing our procedures we did not note any other indicators of material impairment.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality 28.0 million 2016: 28.0 million.
Basis for Materiality was determined as approximately 5.2% 2016: Materiality was determined as less than 1% of shareholders equity.
determining 5.6% of average profit before tax from Ongoing operations, materiality excluding the impact of the Ogden discount rate change on 2016 year end results.
Rationale for We determined that the critical benchmark for the Group was We determined that the critical the benchmark average profit before tax from Ongoing operations.
This measure benchmark for the Parent Company was applied uses a three-year average of profit before tax which we deemed shareholders equity.
This is because the appropriate due to the inherent volatility of profits in the insurance Parent Company is not a trading entity industry.
We also elected to exclude the impact of the Ogden but rather receives dividend income from discount rate change on the 2016 results due to the non-recurring its subsidiaries.
When determining materiality for the Parent Company, we also considered We also considered this measure to be suitable having compared to other benchmarks: our materiality equates to 5.1% the appropriateness of this materiality for the consolidation of this set of financial 2016: 7.9% of statutory profit before tax, 0.8% 2016: 0.9% of gross earned premium and 1.1% 2016: 1.1% of equity.
statements to the Groups results.
Group materiality is used for setting audit scope and the assessment of uncorrected misstatements.
Materiality is set for each significant component in line with the components proportion of the chosen benchmark.
This is capped at the lower of 90% of Group materiality and the component materiality determined for a standalone audit.
The main UK insurance trading entity, U K Insurance Limited, which makes up 100% of Group gross earned premium and 94% of Group statutory profit before tax, is scoped to a component materiality of 25.2 million 2016: 25.2 million.
We determine performance materiality at a level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
We have set Group performance materiality at 19.6 million 2016: 19.6 million and the audit testing for UK Insurance Limited is carried out to a performance materiality of 17.6 million 2016: 17.6 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.4 million 2016: 1.4 million for the Group financial statements and 1.3 million 2016: 1.3 million for the Parent Company financial statements, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
COM 109 Independent Auditors report to the shareholders of Direct Line Insurance Group plc continued An overview of the scope of our audit The scope of our Group audit was determined by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
This resulted in two entities being subject to a full scope audit, while a further two were subject to an audit of specified account balances where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations.
All entities within scope of the Group audit are based in the UK.
These four entities represent the principal trading and service operations of the Group and account for 99% 2016: 99% of the Groups net assets, 100% 2016: 100% of the Groups gross earned premium and 98% 2016: 98% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team also performs the audit of the in scope UK entities.
The Group audit team was responsible for all of the entities listed above, including the Parent Company.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
to report in respect of these matters Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
110 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or of these matters.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures We have nothing of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be to report in respect audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Audit tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc on 21 March 2000 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2000 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 18 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2000 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Colin Rawlings FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 26 February 2018 WWW.
