INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERTEK GROUP PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION In our opinion: Intertek Group plcs group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit andcash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared inaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly preparedin accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IASRegulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within theAnnual Report, which comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31December 2017: the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year thenended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the Company statement of changes in equity for the year thenended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summaryof significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Ourresponsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we haveobtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis forour opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with theethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of thefinancial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs EthicalStandard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and wehave fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard werenot provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in the Directors Report, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 20.0m 2016: 17.3m, basedon5%of statutory profit before tax.
Overall Company materiality: 5.1m 2016: 4.9m, based on1%of total assets.
Audit scope We performed full scope audit procedures over 54 legal entities and performed specified audit procedures on a further 19 entities, covering 28 territories in total.
The Group audit team held regular meetings with component teams, and visited the UK, US, China and United Arab Emirates teams, to understand and supervise the work of these local teams and to make sure that we had a full and comprehensive understanding of the results of their work, particularly insofar as it related to the identified areas of focus.
Taken together, the entities over which audit work was performed accounted for 85% of the Groups revenue and 90% of the Groups statutory profit before tax.
Areas of focus Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Group.
Valuation of current and deferred tax balances Group.
Completeness of customer claims Group.
Presentation and valuation of acquisitions Group.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 157 OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERTEK GROUP PLC continued The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at areas where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industries in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, indirect and direct tax laws, anti-bribery laws and financial reporting regulations.
Our tests included, but were not limited to: understanding managements approach to ensuring compliance with laws and regulations: enquiries with local, regional and Group management: meeting with Group and local legal counsel to discuss legal matters: meeting with internal audit: obtaining legal confirmations: and focusing testing on balances and transactions, in addition to those listed as key audit matters below, that are subject to estimation, such as accrued income.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely it is that we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditor's professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditor, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Carrying value of goodwill We evaluated future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they andintangibleassets weredrawn up, including comparing them to the latest Board-approved Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 77 budgets, and testing the underlying calculations.
We identified no issues and to note 9 in the financial statements.
The Group had 579.6m of goodwill and a further We used our in-house valuation specialists to evaluate the methodology 178.2m of intangible assets recognised on the usedto calculate the value in use of the CGUs, and key assumptions including: balance sheet at 31 December 2017.
The carrying the discount rate by comparing the cost of capital for the Group with values of goodwill and intangibles are contingent comparable organisations: and on future cash flows of the underlying Cash Generating Units CGUs and there is a risk that, the long-term growth rates by comparing these to publicly available market ifthese cash flows do not meet the directors data on projected growth rates in key territories such as the UK, USAand expectations, the assets will be impaired.
Accounting standards require management to We concluded that they were within the range of reasonable assumptions perform an annual assessment of the carrying based on this information.
value of goodwill, and other intangible assets are We performed sensitivity analysis around these assumptions.
Having assessed where there are indications that they ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either areimpaired.
As this assessment is based on individuallyor collectively would be required for an impairment to arise, thefuture value in use, and a significant amount weconsidered the likelihood of such a movement occurring.
ofvalue is based on the value to perpetuity of theCGUs, future cash flows must be estimated, Our testing did not identify any indicators of impairment, and that the which can be highly judgemental and could assumptions were reasonable and would require significant downside significantly impact the carrying value of changesbefore any impairment would be triggered.
In addition we assessed the appropriateness of the CGUs used in the impairment assessment, the useful economic lives of the intangible assets and the related disclosures, and concluded that these were appropriate.
158 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 OTHER INFORMATION KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Valuation of current and deferred tax balances We involved our in-house tax specialists in our testing of the appropriateness Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 77 of the techniques, estimates and judgements taken in relation to deferred and to note 6 in the financial statements.
taxation and in respect of uncertain tax positions recognised in the financialstatements.
Provisions in relation to potential tax exposure aresubject to judgement and require the selection In assessing uncertain tax positions, we obtained managements of estimation techniques and determination calculationsand evaluated the methodology and assumptions used.
ofestimates, either of which could influence the In understanding and evaluating the directors technical interpretation current or deferred tax positions.
The Group operates oftaxlaw in respect of specific transactions that gave rise to uncertain in a large number of jurisdictions, which increases taxpositions we evaluated: the risk of non-compliance with international tax legislation and introduces complextransfer third party tax advice received by the Group: .
the status of recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries: In addition the Group has provisions for uncertain the outturn of previous claims: tax positions relating to both historical and current tax arrangements.
The recognition and measurement judgemental positions taken in tax returns and current year estimates: and of these items in the financial statements is changes in tax legislation, in particular the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or judgemental, and we focused on thedirectors interpretation of existing legislation by localtax authorities.
forecasts of future profits against which to utiliseaccumulated losses, and the technical In assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets, we considered the interpretation of taxation law in respect to likelihood of the Group being able to generate sufficient future taxable transactions giving rise to deferred tax assets profitsagainst which to offset accumulated losses, and tested: anduncertain tax positions.
key inputs to the calculation including revenue and profit assumptions, inline with our work over the carrying value of goodwill: and the directors ability to accurately forecast future profits where the taxassets will not be recoverable in the foreseeable future.
The procedures above did not identify any issues with regards to the valuationof deferred tax assets and provisions for uncertain tax positions, and we are in agreement with the 1% effect on the current year tax rate of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the resulting disclosure.
Completeness and valuation of customer claims Where relevant we obtained confirmations from the Groups external legal Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 77 and counsels of the existence and details of open claims.
Confirmations were to note 13 in the financial statements.
sentto both the lawyers associated with the key claims and also additional lawyers who Intertek have interacted with throughout the year.
As an assurance provider, the Group can be subject toclaims from customers and consumers relating We met with legal counsel to discuss certain open or threatened claims toits work, and the geographically diverse nature tounderstand the likelihood of an adverse judgement and the potential ofthe Group means there is a risk that one or more magnitude of the claim.
significant claims are omitted from the centrally We obtained and read the relevant sections of the Groups insurance maintained claims register.
documents, and confirmed that any liability cap had been appropriately Where customer claims may give rise to a future appliedto the calculation of provision held against those claims.
liability, the Directors are required to recognise Through our work, we did not identify any material claims that had not eithera liability or a contingent liability in the beenrecorded centrally and provided for, or for which the provision was financial statements.
As the actual cost is often notappropriate.
unknown, management must exercise their judgement in calculating the liability.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 159 OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERTEK GROUP PLC continued KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Presentation and valuation of acquisitions For these transactions we obtained and read the sale and purchase Refer to the Audit Committee report on page 77 and agreements SPAs in order to gain an understanding of the key terms to note 10 in the Consolidated FinancialStatements.
The Groups strategy is to use acquisitions to In testing acquisitions during the year we: augment organic revenue growth, and during the tested that the consideration paid by the Group was consistent with year made two acquisitions: KJ Tech Services GmbH theterms of the SPAs: and Acumen Security LLC.
In addition, the 12-month hindsight period for reassessing the acquisition of FIT assessed the appropriateness of the directors identification of intangible Italia SRL, EWA-Canada Ltd and Laboratorios ABC assets acquired by reference to the SPAs, due diligence reports and other Quimica, Investigacin y Anlisis, S. A fide C. V. closed supporting documentation, to identify any assets listed: during the year.
obtained the directors calculation of the fair value of intangible assets Judgement is required in determining the amount acquired, and where material corroborated the inputs and assumptions ofconsideration paid and the valuation of assets tosupporting evidence: andliabilities acquired.
In addition, the disclosure verified that the accounting treatment for each transaction, and any requirements in respect of acquisitions are extensive.
resulting liabilities, is consistent with the accounting standard requirements: and assessed the reasonableness of the inputs and assumptions used in calculating contingent consideration.
We noted no material exceptions through performing these procedures.
For the acquisitions made in 2016, in order to test the directors final assessment of the purchase price allocation, we: obtained evidence from internal and external advisors in relation to the fairvalue of liabilities recognised on acquisition, to evaluate whether the valuation remained appropriate, or that any adjustments were supported: and evaluated whether all fair value adjustments, and any resulting impact, hadbeen appropriately recognised and accounted for.
Based on the evidence obtained, we did not identify any indications that thefair value adjustments identified by management were inappropriate.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of theGroup and the Company, the accounting processes andcontrols, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is split into three reporting segments: Products, TradeandResources and the operations are spread across over100 countries and approximately 500 legal entities.
Theresults are not consolidated at a country or regional level, sowe determined that the most appropriate level at which toscope our audit was the legal entity level.
When determining our scope, the key financial measure used isprofit before tax.
Due to the disaggregation of the Groups results across the various entities, we identified only two individually financially significant legal entities, both within China.
As a result we instructed our component team to perform auditsof the complete financial information of these entities.
We then considered the 50 countries in which PwC are appointed statutory auditor.
Of these, 24 accounted for themajority of externalprofit, and we therefore focused our considerations on these territories.
Within these countries, wethen excluded any legal entities with no external balances, such as intermediary holding companies, and those entities with highly immaterial revenue, leaving 54 legal entities for which weinstructed our local teams to perform audits of the complete financial information for the purpose of the Group audit.
In certain territories, notably the US and Brazil, there is no statutory auditrequirement and so we considered whether procedures needed to be performed to supplement our coverage.
We selected 13 entities in the US and Canada and two of the entities in Brazil, representing those with the largest contribution to Group profit, over which we performed specified procedures equivalent to audits of the complete financial information.
We also identified afurther four entities in other countries over which we instructed specific audit procedures to be performed over revenue and receivables to supplement coverage over these keyfinancial line items.
In total we performed procedures over 73 legal entities in 28countries, which together accounted for 85% of the Groupsrevenue and 90% of the Groups profit before tax.
160 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 OTHER INFORMATION During the year, members of the Group audit team visited the US, China, United Arab Emirates and UK component teams, and we held planning workshops with 10 of the largest in scope component teams, in order to understand and supervise the audit approach in those locations and to inform them of our audit approach and strategy.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Grouplevel including audit procedures over material head officeentities, tax, legal claims, impairment assessments and consolidation adjustments, gave us the evidence we needed forour opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application ofmateriality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating theeffectof misstatements, both individually and in aggregateonthe financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materialityfor the financial statements as a whole as follows: GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Overall materiality 20.0m 2016: 17.3m.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for We believe that profit before tax is the primary These are a single set of Company accounts for benchmark applied measure used by the shareholders in assessing anentity which has no external revenue and takes the performance of the Group.
This is a generally advantage of the exemption offered under s408 accepted benchmark and the users of the ofCA 2006 not to present its income statement accounts consider it to be a key measure of inthe Company financial statements, which are theperformance of the business.
presented alongside the Group accounts within theannual report for Intertek Group plc.
As a result, the materiality calculation has been based on the total assets of thisnon-trading holding company within the Group.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.20m and 7.82m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Groupmateriality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report tothem misstatements identified during our audit above 900,000 Group audit 2016: 900,000 and 900,000 Company audit 2016: 900,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: REPORTING OBLIGATION OUTCOME We are required to report if we have anything material We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, because to add or draw attention to in respect of the directors not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a statement in the financial statements about whether guarantee as to the Groups andCompanys ability to continue as a going the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the concern.
going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period ofat least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement We have nothing to report.
relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 161 OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INTERTEK GROUP PLC continued REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in theaudit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Ifweidentify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there isa material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based onthese responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, wealso considered whether the disclosures required by the UKCompanies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course oftheaudit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared inaccordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course ofthe audit, we did not identify any material misstatements inthe Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Groupand of the principal risks that would threaten thesolvency or liquidity of the Group Wehave nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: T he directors confirmation on page 33 of the Annual Reportthat they have carried out a robust assessment of theprincipal risks facing the Group, including those that wouldthreaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risksand explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 33 of the Annual Report asto how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, overwhat period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including anyrelated disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report to you in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 78, that theyconsider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge oftheGroup and Company obtained in the course ofperforming our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 75 to 80 describing thework of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditor.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report tobe audited has been properly prepared in accordance with theCompanies Act 2006.
CA06 162 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 OTHER INFORMATION RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the directors for the financialstatements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 102 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable thepreparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financialstatements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whetherthe financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee thatan audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken onthe basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of thefinancial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description formspart of our auditor's report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and onlyfor the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for noother purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept orassume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it maycome save where expressly agreed by our prior consent inwriting.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report toyouif, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations werequire for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have notbeen received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified bylaware not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of theDirectors Remuneration Report to be audited are not inagreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
APPOINTMENT Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, wewereappointed by the directors on 25 May 2016 to audit thefinancial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 andsubsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is two years, covering the years ended 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2017.
Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 5 March 2018 The maintenance and integrity of the Intertek Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination offinancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 163
