Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 99 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Rentokil Initial PLC 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Rentokil Initial plc the Overview Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Materiality: 10.0m 2016: 7.5m 4% 2016: 4% of Group Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Group financial profit before tax, normalised to exclude this Changes in Equity, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Company statements as a whole years net profit on disposal of businesses Balance Sheet and Company Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in the General Accounting Policies.
Coverage 87% 2016: 87% of Group profit before tax In our opinion: Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 Recurring risks Recognition of UK deferred tax and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: assets on unused tax losses the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Provisions for tax adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : contingencies the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Impairment assessment and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies testing of cash-generating Act 2006: and units that include goodwill and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the acquired intangible assets requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Parent Company Recoverability of investments Basis for opinion specific risk in subsidiary undertakings and inter-company receivables.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion of material misstatement isconsistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders in August were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and 2009.
Theperiod of total uninterrupted engagement is for the nine include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of services prohibited by that standard were provided.
audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide aseparate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Recognition of UK deferred Forecast based valuation: Our procedures included: tax assets on unused tax The Group has significant recognised deferred assessing forecasts: we evaluated the judgements losses tax assets and unrecognised deferred tax assets applied by the Directors in determining the likelihood 12.3m 2016: 22.2m in respect of unused tax losses within the UK of the utilisation of tax losses and the appropriateness of 136.0m 2016: 135.3m.
There is inherent of the assumptions underlying the forecasts used in Read more: uncertainty involved in estimating both the estimating future UK taxable profits: A udit Committee Report quantum and probability of relevant future UK our tax expertise: use of our own tax specialists to on pages 65 to 70. taxable profits arising against which unused tax assist us in assessing the recoverability of the tax losses A ccounting policy on losses can be utilised.
against the forecast future taxable profits, taking into page 127. account the Groups tax position, the timing of forecast F inancial disclosures on taxable profits, and our knowledge and experience of page 128 the application of relevant tax legislation: and assessing transparency: assessing whether the Groups disclosures about the recognition of deferred tax assets along with the effect of changes in key assumptions reflected the associated inherent risks.
Our results As a result of our work we found the level of deferred tax assets recognised to be acceptable.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 100 Independent Auditors Report The risk Our response Provisions for tax risks Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: 59.9m 2016: 62.9m The Group holds a number of provisions for tax our tax expertise: use of our own tax specialists to risks which arise in the normal course of business.
assess the Groups tax positions, its correspondence Read more: The largest provision relates to a financing with the relevant tax authorities, and to analyse and Audit Committee Report structure which has been challenged by the tax challenge the assumptions used to determine tax on pages 65 to 70. authorities.
The Group operates in a number of provisions based on our knowledge and experiences Accounting policy on tax jurisdictions causing complexities in transfer ofthe application of the international and local legislation page 127 pricing and other international tax legislation by the relevant authorities and courts: and Financial disclosures on issues.
In addition, tax matters usually take a assessing transparency: assessing the adequacy of page 127. significant length of time to be agreed with the tax the Groups disclosures in respect of tax liabilities and authorities and, as such, the recognition of these uncertain tax positions.
tax provisions requires judgements and estimates Our results to be made in respect of the likely outcomes of We found the level of tax provisioning to be acceptable.
Impairment assessment and Forecast based valuation: Our procedures included: testing of cash-generating The Group has significant carrying amounts review of impairment models: evaluating the principles units that include goodwill of goodwill which is spread across a range and integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow Goodwill: 972.2m of cash-generating units CGUs in different models and assumptions used, in particular those 2016: 736.0m countries.
This is related to numerous past and relating to forecast revenue growth and profit margins: present acquisitions, spread across the Groups historical comparisons: evaluating historical forecasting Read more: geography.
The acquisitions are largely boltaccuracy of key inputs including revenue growth and Audit Committee Report on in nature and the majority of the acquired profit margins: on pages 65 to 70. business and goodwill are integrated into the benchmarking assumptions: comparing the Groups Accounting policy on existing CGUs.
assumptions to externally derived data in relation to key pages 131 and 132. inputs such as long-term growth rates and discount rate Financial disclosures on A value in use model is used for impairment assumptions: pages 131 and 132. testing for each CGU.
The estimation of the sensitivity analysis: performing sensitivity analysis value in use of the cash-generating units over the key assumptions noted above to identify requires significant judgement due to the which assumptions have the most significant effect on inherent uncertainty involved with forecasting the headroom available: and discounting future cash flows particularly test of details: identifying specific balances with possible in relation to discount rates, long-term growth indicators of impairment based on historical forecast rates, terminal values, and forecast cash flows.
accuracy, sensitivity in headroom in individual CGUs Changes to the assumptions applied to the to changes in key assumptions and market conditions model, for example a change in the discount rate where the businesses operate and specifically challenge or to forecast cash flows, have the potential to the Groups valuations for these items: and significantly affect the impairment testing result.
assessing transparency: considering whether the Groups disclosures of the effect on the impairment Impairment testing over acquired intangible assessment of changes in key assumptions reflected assets including customer lists and relationships the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
and brands has been removed from the risk in the current year.
Our results We found the resulting estimate of the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units which contain goodwill to be acceptable.
Parent Company financial Low risk, high value: Our procedures included: statements The carrying amount of the Companys investments test of details: comparing a sample of the investment Recoverability of investments in subsidiaries and inter-company receivables carrying values and inter-company receivables to net in subsidiary undertakings represents 85% of the Companys total assets.
assets of the relevant subsidiary to identify whether the and inter-company net assets of the subsidiaries, being an approximation We do not consider the recoverability of these receivables.
Investments of their minimum recoverable amount, were in excess investments and subsidiary undertakings to be 274.2m 2016: 271.1m.
at a high risk of significant misstatement, or to be Inter-company receivables subject to a high level of judgement.
due to their materiality in the context of the We found the carrying value of investments and the Company financial statements as a whole, this is recoverability of intercompany receivables to be considered to be the area which had the greatest acceptable.
effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and completing our Company audit.
We continue to perform procedures over acquisition accounting.
However, as there were no individually material acquisitions in the current year, nor were there any material provisional accounting adjustments, we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 101 Independent Auditors Report Video and telephone conference meetings were held with these 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the component auditors and all others that were not physically visited.
scope of our audit Atthese visits and meetings, the findings reported to the Group team Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at were discussed in more detail.
The Group audit team performed audit 10.0m 2016: 7.5m, determined with reference to a benchmark of file reviews of all component auditors and any further work required Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude this years net profit bythe Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 7.5m 2016: 5.6m, determined with reference to component we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation materiality set by the Group audit team.
This is lower than the materiality tothe Directors statement in the General accounting policies we would otherwise have determined by reference to total assets, and note to the financial statements on the use of the going concern represents 0.2% 2016: 0.2% of total assets.
basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.3m 2016: 0.25m, financial statements: or in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 165 qualitative grounds.
is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
The audit work was performed by 18 2016: 16 audit teams in 16 different We have nothing to report in these respects.
We subjected 67 2016: 83 to full scope audits for Group purposes and 32 2016: 29 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information tospecified risk-focused audit procedures.
The components for which inthe Annual Report we performed work other than audits for Group reporting purposes The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in were not individually significant but were included in the scope of our the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion Group reporting work in order to provide further coverage over the on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, Groups results.
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly The components within the scope of our work accounted for the stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the The remaining 25% of total Group revenue, 13% of Group profit before information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the tax and 14% of total Group assets consists of individually insignificant financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work reporting components, none of which individually represented more we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
than 2% of any of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax absolute or total Group assets.
For these residual components, we performed Strategic Report and Directors Report analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment Based solely on our work on the other information: that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant and the Directors Report: areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial the information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the year is consistent with the financial statements: and component materialities, which ranged from 0.1m to 5.8m excluding in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the component materiality for Parent Company, which was set at 7.5m, the Companies Act 2006.
2016: 0.1m to 3.6m, excluding the component materiality for the Parent Company which was set at 5.6m, having regard to the mix Directors Remuneration Report ofsize and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be on 57 of the 99 components 2016: 73 of the 112 components was audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit Act 2006. ofthe Parent Company, was performed by the Group team.
Group revenue Group profit before tax absolute Group total assets 75% 87% 86% 2016: 81% 2016: 87% 2016: 86% F ull scope for Group 67% F ull scope for Group 51% F ull scope for Group 79% audit purposes 2017 audit purposes 2017 audit purposes 2017 S pecified risk-focused 8% S pecified risk-focused 36% S pecified risk-focused 7% audit procedures 2017 audit procedures 2017 audit procedures 2017 Residual components 25% Residual components 13% Residual components 14% Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 102 Independent Auditors Report Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Auditors responsibilities Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to the Directors confirmation within the Directors viability statement on issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high page 42 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they how they are being managed and mitigated: and could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the Directors explanation in the Directors viability statement of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable website at frc.
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and Irregularities ability to detect meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be qualifications or assumptions.
expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from oursector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors viability management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ofthe Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
Corporate governance disclosures We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the We are required to report to you if: financial statements including financial reporting including related we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures statement that they consider that the Annual Report and Financial on the related financial statements items.
Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and In addition, we considered the impact of laws and regulations in provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the the specific areas of health and safety, anti-bribery, environmental Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or law and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit nature ofthe Groups activities.
With the exception of any known Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by orpossible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, us to the Audit Committee.
our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the Directors We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible theUK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for non-compliance inthese areas as part of our procedures on the related our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our teamand remained alert to any indications of non-compliance 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters throughout the audit.
onwhich we are required to report by exception As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, inour opinion: as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors our responsibilities Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, accounting records and returns: or inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the notmade: or Companys members those matters we are required to state to them we have not received all the information and explanations we require in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent for our audit.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for We have nothing to report in these respects.
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 165, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements Paul Sawdon Senior Statutory Auditor including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Chartered Accountants financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether 15 Canada Square, due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability London, E14 5GL to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting 28 February 2018 unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 103 Financial Statements Contents 104 Financial review 108 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss andOther Comprehensive Income 109 Consolidated Balance Sheet 110 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 111 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 112 Notes to the Financial Statements 150 Related undertakings 155 Five-year summary 156 Parent Company Balance Sheet 157 Parent Company Statement of Changes inEquity 158 Notes to the Parent Company Accounts Additional Information 163 D irectors Report 166 Additional shareholder information 168 G lossary Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 104 Financial review Overview of Group performance Revenue Profit Ongoing Revenue, which excludes disposed businesses, increased by Ongoing Operating Profit, which excludes the results of disposed 14.5% in 2017, with all regions contributing to growth.
Asia performed businesses, increased by 14.8% in 2017, reflecting growth in all regions particularly well, increasing revenues by 37.3% aided by the PCI joint but offset by lower profits in France.
Restructuring costs amounted venture with North America growing by 21.1%.
Revenues in the Pacific to 6.9m at CER 2016: 7.9m consisting mainly of costs in respect of and Europe rose by 7.7% and 7.3% respectively while the UK and ROW initiatives focused on driving operational efficiency in North America, region delivered growth of 6.8%.
Group Organic Revenue growth France and the UK.
was 3.8% and growth from acquired businesses was 10.7%.
Ongoing Profit before tax at actual exchange rates grew by 242.3% to 713.6m.
Revenue in Pest Control grew strongly at 21.4% during the year, of Profit before tax includes a net profit on disposal of businesses of which 5.8% was Organic Revenue, while Hygiene reported increased 449.0m, including the profit on disposal of the businesses transferred revenues of 7.6%.
Our Protect & Enhance businesses reported into the Haniel joint venture of 481.2m and a loss of 32.2m in relation Ongoing Revenue growth of 0.9% during the period with improved to the divestment of eight predominantly flat linen laundries in France to performance in our French Workwear business.
Total Revenue at actual RLD.
Net one-off costs at actual exchange rates amounted to 6.8m exchange rates increased by 11.3% reflecting the disposal of businesses 2016: 8.6m.
during the year offset by the favourable impact of foreign exchange.
Adjusted profit before tax at actual exchange rates of 286.9m, which excludes the net profit from disposal of businesses, was favourably impacted by foreign exchange movements of 19.1m, due mainly to the weakening of sterling against the euro in the year.
Ongoing Revenue at CER Ongoing Operating Profit at CER 2,093.0m 275.4m 1,827.5m 240.2m 2,093.0m 275.4m 2016 2017 2016 2017 Cash at AER North America Free Cash Flow from continuing operations at actual exchange rates In North America Ongoing Revenue grew 21.1% in 2017, of which 16.3% amounted to 175.8m, driven by the increased profit delivery in 2017 was growth through acquisition and 4.8% was organic.
Pest Control and a year-on-year reduction in interest payments following the grew 23.5% 5.2% organic, helped by a strong performance in the bond refinancing in Q1 2016, offset by the disposal of the businesses products business but also impacted by the hurricane in Puerto Rico in transferred to the Haniel joint venture and the non-repeat of the 7.3m September.
Our business in Puerto Rico contributed $7m of Ongoing special dividend from our Japanese associate in 2016.
Spend on current Operating Profit in 2017 and continues to be significantly impacted by the and prior-year acquisitions including the Rentokil PCI joint venture in after-effects of the hurricane.
Ongoing Operating Profit growth of 21.7% India totalled 281.1m, net proceeds received from the completion of reflects the combined impact from higher revenues and acquisitions.
Net the JV with Haniel and disposal of the eight laundries in France to RLD Operating Margins at 13.6% were 0.1% points above the prior year with were 451.9m and dividend payments were 64.3m an 8.8m, 15.9% an underlying increase in Pest Control services margins up 0.7% points increase on the prior year.
Foreign exchange translation and other items to 16.7% reflecting greater density, offset by an increase in mix from decreased net debt by 29.1m, leaving an overall decrease in net debt the lower-margin distribution business.
Nine Pest Control businesses of 311.4m and closing net debt of 927.3m.
were acquired in the region during the year with combined annualised revenues of just over 100m in the year prior to purchase.
Free Cash Flow from continuing Europe 175.8m operations at AER Ongoing Revenue for Europe rose by 7.3% 2.9% Organic Revenue 156.4m growth, reflecting good growth in Germany 8.6% and Southern Europe 29.1% and an improved performance across all categories in France, 175.8m which grew by 1.2%.
Latin America, which was managed by the Europe region in 2017, once again performed well, rising by 30.1%.
Ongoing Revenue from our European Hygiene operations grew by 15.4%, driven by growth in France and Southern Europe including the results of the 2016 2017 acquisition of CWS Italy, while Ongoing Revenue from our Pest Control businesses grew by 5.7%.
Overall Ongoing Operating Profit for the Europe region grew by 0.2%, with good growth in Southern Europe and Germany offset by a budgeted 7.2% decline in France as a result of ongoing market challenges.
Net Operating Margins for the region declined by 1.3% points to 19.1%, impacted by France Workwear and the dilutive effect of the acquisition of CWS-bocos Italian hygiene business.
Including CWSboco Italy the region acquired nine new businesses in 2017 in Europe and Latin America, including four in Pest Control and five in Hygiene with combined annualised revenues of 44m in the year prior to purchase.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 105 Financial review Our transaction to form a joint venture with Haniel to create a leading Acquisitions and disposals provider of workwear and hygiene services in Europe, by transferring our Acquisitions are core to our strategy we have the in-house capability Workwear and Hygiene businesses in Benelux and Central and Eastern to identify, evaluate and execute acquisitions at pace.
Our model for Europe into CWS-boco owned by Haniel, completed on 30 June 2017. value-creating M&A is structured around disciplined evaluation of In Q4 we also sold eight laundries in France to RLD.
Our remaining targets, detailed integration programmes and careful governance of new France Workwear operations are making good operational progress businesses under our ownership.
and this, together with an improving economic outlook for France, gives We have significantly accelerated our execution of M&A during the us confidence in achieving our stated aim of returning France Workwear year, particularly within Pest Control Emerging and Growth markets.
to profitable growth by the end of this year.
During the year we acquired 41 businesses for 281.1m 33 in Pest UK & Rest of World Control, seven in Hygiene and one in Protect & Enhance with combined The UK & Rest of World region delivered a good performance in 2017, annualised revenues of 224.7m in the year prior to purchase.
We have with an overall increase in Ongoing Revenue of 6.8%, comprising been active in M&A, acquiring businesses in 24 countries across all of Organic Revenue growth of 1.4% and growth through acquisition of our regions.
The region delivered continued growth from UK Pest Control In North America we have continued to reinforce our presence as and Hygiene, with Pest Control continuing to benefit from increased the No.
3 player in the worlds largest pest control market through the jobbing work in particular.
However our UK Property Care business acquisition of nine Pest Control companies, five of which are businesses experienced challenging market conditions in 2017 which impacted both with revenues in excess of $12m.
Combined annualised revenues of all revenue and margins.
The Rest of World operations delivered strong businesses acquired in the region in 2017 amounted to just over 100m Ongoing Revenue growth of 12.5% across all of its regional clusters in in the year prior to acquisition, giving annualised revenues from our the Nordics, Caribbean, Africa and MENAT.
Overall Ongoing Operating North America business at the end of December 2017 of over $1.1bn.
Profit for the region grew by 6.1%, reflecting higher revenues.
However, Net Operating Margins for the UK & Rest of World region declined by In March 2017 we created a joint venture with PCI, Indias largest pest 0.2% points to 20.7%, reflecting lower margins in Property Care.
The control company, which offers a comprehensive range of pest control region acquired 11 new businesses in the year, including nine in Pest services and products through its countrywide network.
Rentokil, Control, one in Hygiene and one in Protect & Enhance, with combined which has management control of the JV and a 57% stake, is integrating annualised revenues of 24m in the year prior to purchase.
its Indian operations into the JV and the combined business known as Rentokil PCI will operate from 250 locations employing 6,900 people.
Asia Further, on 11 April our JV in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia KSA acquired The Asia region has had another excellent performance with Ongoing SAMES, the market leader in the commercial pest control sector in Revenue increasing by 37.3% 7.6% Organic Revenue growth with both KSA with c. 2,500 customers covering most major cities, making us the Pest Control and Hygiene performing well.
Our operations in the less No.
1 Pest Control company in KSA and the Gulf Cooperation Council established markets of India excluding the Rentokil PCI joint venture, countries.
The business generated revenues of 9m in the 12 months China and Vietnam continue to deliver strong growth of 16.2%.
PCI, these countries combined delivered revenue growth of 210.0%.
We monitor the integration and performance of acquired businesses Ongoing Operating Profit in the region grew by 39.5% in 2017, reflecting closely to ensure they meet our financial hurdles and resourcing the leverage from higher revenues, density and service productivity.
Of the 40 acquisitions that were made between 1 April 2015 Operating Margins increased by 0.2% points to 10.5%, with growth in and 30 September 2016, all are delivering expected returns at or above Hygiene margins being offset by the dilutive effect of the lower-margin their respective target levels.
Including PCI we acquired five Pest Control businesses during 2017 in India, Singapore and Malaysia with combined Going forward, we will continue to execute a differentiated approach to annualised revenues of 49m in the year prior to purchase.
capital investment and M&A, with clear expectations and IRRs by business line.
We will continue to seek further acquisition opportunities Pacific in 2018 in both Pest Control and Hygiene and the pipeline of prospects In the Pacific region Ongoing Revenue grew well by 7.7%, 4.2% organic, remains strong.
Our anticipated spend on acquisitions in 2018 is driven by good performances across our core Pest Control and Hygiene estimated to be in the region of 200m to 250m.
Our Pest Control operations in Australia and New Zealand performed well, growing organically by just under 5% and 10% respectively.
Completion of JV transaction with Haniel and proposed Ongoing Operating Profit in the region grew by 9.6% and Net Operating disposal of eight laundries in France Margins rose by 0.4% points to 21.6%.
We acquired six small Pest Control Our transaction to enter into a JV with Haniel to combine our Workwear companies in Australia in the year and one Hygiene business, with and Hygiene businesses in Benelux and Central and Eastern Europe combined annualised revenues of 7m in the year prior to purchase.
We anticipate retaining our 17.8% stake in the combined business for three to five years after formation, Change in regional reporting structure after which time we have various exit options under the terms of the From January 2018 our Central America operations previously managed agreement.
We also completed the sale of eight laundries in France to out of and reported within the North America region will be managed RLD in Q4.
The laundries, which predominantly supply flat linen to the out of existing Latin American operations, which continue to be reported highly competitive healthcare sector, delivered revenues of 78m and within our Europe region.
were break-even for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 106 Financial review After adjusting the reported profit before tax for the profits and losses Acquisition of Cannon Hygiene Services on disposal of businesses, the amortisation and impairment of intangible In early 2018 the Company completed its acquisition of Cannon Hygiene assets excluding computer software, one-off items, the net interest Services.
Cannon has businesses in nine countries Australia, Ireland, credit from pensions and the one-off deferred tax credit arising from India, New Zealand, Portugal, South Africa, Spain, Thailand and the UK the US tax reforms, the Effective Tax Rate ETR for 2017 at AER was and represents a particularly good fit with our existing Hygiene 22.0% 2016: 22.3%.
This compares with a blended rate of tax for the businesses.
The acquisition will allow us to increase our coverage in key countries in which the Group operates of 24% 2016: 25%.
The lower markets and gain a good level of synergy from enhanced density and ETR compared to the blended tax rate is principally due to the benefit combining infrastructures.
The transaction also marks our entry into the derived from financing overseas operations and the release of a net attractive Indian hygiene market where Cannon is the market leader.
prior year over-provision for tax.
Cannon will add c. 77m of global Hygiene revenues to the Company and replaces a high proportion of the European Hygiene revenues Tax governance contributed to the joint venture with Haniel.
The business generated The Group takes a responsible approach to the management of its 5m of adjusted operating profits in the year to March 2017.
In the UK we tax affairs and has a tax policy which is approved by the Board.
Our are currently required to hold the Cannon business separate while we overall strategy is to meet our tax obligations and ensure that longrespond to queries from the Competition & Markets Authority, but we term shareholder returns are optimised by structuring our business and remain confident that the acquisition does not create any competition transactions in a tax efficient manner, taking into account reputational concerns and will be cleared in due course.
Tax risks are regularly reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee.
Rentokil Initial plc has received a low risk rating from Central and regional overheads HMRC.
Central and regional overheads reduced by 1.5m to 66.2m at CER 2016: 67.7m reflecting the central cost reduction programme following The Groups approach in relation to the management of tax issues is to the Haniel JV offset by investments in digital capability.
ensure that: We comply with all applicable laws, disclosure requirements and Restructuring costs regulations in the territories in which we do business: In February 2016 we announced that, with the exception of integration All tax positions adopted are adequately and fairly disclosed in tax costs for significant acquisitions, we will report restructuring costs within filings: operating profit.
Integration costs associated with significant acquisitions We have an open and transparent working relationship with HMRC will be reported as one-off items and excluded from operating profit.
and local tax authorities around the world which complies with the Restructuring costs of 6.9m at CER 2016: 7.9m consisted mainly of Groups Code of Conduct: costs in respect of initiatives focused on driving operational efficiency in Where disputes arise with tax authorities we seek to reach a North America, France and the UK.
resolution as soon as possible in an open and constructive manner: Where considered appropriate the Group takes advice from Disposals at AER professional firms: A net profit on disposal of businesses has been recognised of 449.0m Tax risks are appropriately managed in accordance with the tax policy: relating to the profit on disposal of the businesses transferred to and the Haniel JV of 481.2m, and a loss of 32.2m in relation to eight Our tax planning is aligned with the Groups commercial and business French laundries sold to RLD.
activities and the tax treatment of business transactions is optimised.
The profit on disposal in respect of the Haniel JV includes consideration A full copy of the Company's tax strategy can be found on the of 703.9m comprising cash consideration of 449.9m plus the Company's website at rentokil-initial.
retained 17.8% share in the JV of 254.0m.
Net assets of the businesses amounted to 247.3m which together with transaction costs of 18.2m Net debt and cash flow and foreign exchange gains transferred from reserves of 42.8m Operating cash inflow 258.4m at AER for continuing operations resulted in a profit on disposal of 481.2m.
was 11m higher than in 2016 largely due to the increase in Ongoing Operating Profit of 54.4m offset by the impact of the Haniel JV and the One-off items operating at CER non-repeat of the 7.3m special dividend from our Japanese associate Net one-off costs of 6.6m 2016: 8.6m primarily relate to the in 2016. acquisition and integration costs in North America.
Capital expenditure from continuing operations of 212.1m was 9.7m Interest at AER lower than 2016 with an underlying growth in capital expenditure in the Net interest payable excluding the net interest credit from pensions ongoing business in line with revenue growth and the adverse impact of at actual exchange rates was 42.9m compared to 38.5m in the prior exchange rate movements being offset by a reduction in capex following year, a net increase of 4.4m primarily due to the impact of foreign the disposal of the workwear and hygiene assets to Haniel and RLD.
exchange as a result of the weakening of sterling against the euro and Interest payments including finance lease interest were 13.2m lower a change in the net debt currency mix.
The average cost of net debt for than last year due to phasing following the maturity of the 300m bond the Group was 4.0% in 2017. in Q1 2016.
This resulted in Free Cash Flow from continuing operations Tax of 175.8m, an increase of 19.4m on the prior year.
The income tax expense for the year at actual exchange rates was Cash spent on acquisitions totalled 281.1m.
Net proceeds received 30.6m on the reported profit before tax of 713.6m.
The tax charge during the year from the completion of the JV transaction with Haniel for the year includes a one-off deferred tax credit of 6.4m as a result and the divestment of the French laundries are 451.9m.
The Company of the US tax reforms enacted at the end of 2017.
The tax reforms are made dividend payments of 64.3m in 2017 an 8.8m, 15.9% increase not expected to have any material impact on the Company's tax rate for on the prior year which together with foreign exchange translation 2018 but are expected to result in an increase in cash tax payments of and other items of 29.1m resulted in an overall decrease in net debt of about 4m in 2018.
311.4m and closing net debt of 927.3m.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 107 Financial review Dividend growth is set to run ahead of profit growth in the short term Pensions at CER, and consequently the level of dividend cover will reduce over At 31 December 2017 the Companys UK defined benefit pension time.
Dividend cover is currently at 3.1x 2016: 3.2x using adjusted scheme, which is closed to new members, was valued at a funding measures.
Free Cash Flow cover is currently at 2.7x 2016: 2.8x.
This surplus of 325.4m on the Companys balance sheet.
Following the policy should ensure we can deliver stable, secure dividend growth for most recent triennial actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2015 many years to come.
the Trustee and the Company agreed that the Scheme is now fully funded on a technical provisions basis.
The Trustees have therefore Following an encouraging performance in 2017, and in anticipation of agreed annual payments will not be required going forward.
Because further progress in 2018, the Board is recommending a final dividend the Scheme is fully funded on a technical provisions basis, 9.0m of in respect of 2017 of 2.74p per share, payable to shareholders on the payments previously held in escrow was released to the Company register at the close of business on 13 April 2018, to be paid on 16 May in February 2017.
The funding position will be reviewed at the next 2018.
This equates to a full year dividend of 3.88p per share, an increase actuarial valuation, which is scheduled for 31 December 2018. of 15.1% compared to 2016.
Funding Geopolitical events At 31 December 2017, and following the receipt of the proceeds We are a global business with c. 90% of revenues derived from outside in respect of the Haniel JV, the Group had net debt of 927.3m the UK and with minimal cross-border trading.
The global economic representing a reduction of 98.2m from the net debt as at 30 June environment continues to be uncertain with high levels of volatility 2017.
At the year end the Group had 613m of centrally held funds and in exchange and commodity markets and with international trading available undrawn committed facilities.
In November 2017 the Group's arrangements potentially subject to significant change.
We continue to term loans were refinanced with a 400m bond maturing in November monitor the potential implications of geopolitical change on our trading 2024 at a euro coupon of 0.95%.
The majority of funds were swapped and financing environment.
We remain of the view that the defensive into US dollars in line with our hedging policy.
Other than a 50m bond nature of our core categories, combined with the geographic location that is maturing in March 2018, the Group has no debt maturities until and spread of our operations, place us in a relatively strong position to September 2019 when the 500m bond matures.
mitigate such risks going forward and to take advantage of any potential opportunities that the changes may bring.
The ratio of net debt to EBITDA at 31 December 2017 was c. 1.9x and the Companys credit rating remains at BBB with a Stable outlook.
We are Summary of 2017 performance committed to maintaining a BBB rating and, based on our expectations We are pleased with our performance in 2017 and the continued growth for the coming year and our strong cash flow projections for 2018, we momentum in the business.
Pest Control has performed well across the are confident in doing so.
regions and we remain encouraged by the progress we are delivering in Hygiene, which is a strong complementary business to our Pest Control Going concern operations.
2017 has also been a particularly good year for M&A and The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing we have acquired 33 Pest Control companies and seven high-quality the accounts on the basis that the Groups strong liquidity position Hygiene businesses across 24 countries, strengthening our already and ability to reduce capital expenditure or expenditure on bolt-on leading positions in key growth territories.
acquisitions are sufficient to meet the Groups forecast funding needs, including those modelled in a downside case.
Overall, we have had a very good year and we are delighted that we have again exceeded our financial targets for revenue, profit and cash.
Dividend We are confident of delivering further progress against these in 2018.
The Group adopts a progressive dividend policy with dividend payments related to the level of Free Cash Flow available.
The Group aims to pay dividends twice a year and the level of each dividend is decided by the Board.
When determining the level of dividend each year, the Board considers the following: Jeremy Townsend cash generation in the year and forecast future cash generation: cash availability at the point of dividend distribution: and Chief Financial Officer and Chief Information Officer cash required to invest in capital expenditure and acquisitions.
28 February 2018 Read our Tax Strategy at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery policies Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
