Strategic report Financial statements Other information Independent Auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Clarkson PLCs consolidated financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the annual report, which comprise: the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2017: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements: the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the audit committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Other than those disclosed in the audit committee report, we have provided no other non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 2.5m 2016: 2.2m, based on 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted for acquisition related costs 2016: profit before taxation, adjusted for the exceptional item and acquisition related costs.
Overall Parent Company materiality: 2.1m 2016: 1.9m, based on 1% of total assets, reduced to an amount less Materiality than the overall Group materiality.
Audit scope We performed audit work over the complete financial information for reporting units which accounted for approximately 90% of the Groups profit before taxation, adjusted for acquisition related costs 2016: 84% of the Groups profit before taxation, adjusted for the exceptional item and acquisition related costs and 88% 2016: 89% Audit scope of Group revenue.
These reporting units comprised certain operating businesses and centralised functions.
We identified 61 reporting units, two of which were significant due to their size.
The reporting units comprised certain operating business and centralised functions which required an audit of their complete financial information.
In addition we have conducted specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions in respect of a number of other reporting units.
Key audit matters Key audit matters Risk of impairment of trade receivables: Revenue recognition: and Carrying value of goodwill.
com 87 Governance Independent Auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industries in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We designed audit procedures that focused on the risk of non-compliance related to compliance with regulatory licences and income taxation.
Our tests included inspecting correspondence with regulators, tax authorities and meeting with the internal legal counsel.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the Auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the Auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Risk of impairment of trade receivables Group Refer to page 81 audit committee report, note 14 of the financial We tested balances where no provision was recognised to check that statements and note 2.3 for the Directors disclosures of the related there were no indicators of impairment.
We selected a sample of the accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.
larger trade receivable balances where a provision for impairment of trade receivables was recognised and understood the rationale for At the year-end, the Group had trade receivables of 57.8m before managements judgement that a provision was required.
Our testing provisions for impairment of 13.3m.
As set out in the business review procedures included verifying if payments had been received since the section of the strategic report, the shipping industry, whilst improving in year-end, reviewing historical payment patterns and inspecting any certain segments, has continued to face challenging market conditions correspondence with customers on expected settlement dates.
resulting from the effect of certain macro-economic factors, such as oil prices and freight rates.
Accordingly, the Group experienced uncertainty In order to evaluate the appropriateness of these judgements, we also over the collectability of trade receivables from specific customers.
verified whether balances were overdue, the customers location and the consistency of application of provision policy for specific customers, The determination as to whether a trade receivable is collectable involves including those where no revenue is recognised at the time of invoicing.
Specific factors management considers include the age of the balance, location and known financial condition of certain We also obtained corroborative evidence including correspondence customers, existence of disputes, recent historical payment patterns supporting any disputes between the parties involved, attempts by andany other available information concerning the creditworthiness management to recover the amounts outstanding and on the credit status of the counterparty.
of significant counterparties where available.
Management uses this information to determine whether a provision for By performing the procedures set out above we also challenged impairment is required either for a specific transaction or for a customers managements rationale where provisions were recognised on transactions balance overall.
that were not overdue as at the balance sheet date and verified these were appropriately supported.
In assessing the appropriateness of the overall For certain customers, there is no recognition of revenue where doubt provision for impairment, we considered: exists as to the ability to collect payment at the time of invoicing.
i. how much of the previous years provision had been utilised for bad debt We focused on this area because it requires a high level of management write-offs during the year: and judgement and the materiality of the amounts involved.
prior year provision amounts released where a customer had paid.
Releases of the provision during the year are disclosed in note 14.
This included some infrequent payments of overdue amounts from customers where a provision continues to be recognised for new invoices raised.
Despite these payments, management continues to provide upfront for such customers on the basis there still remains ongoing uncertainty over their underlying financial condition as indicated by the ad hoc timing of payments beyond dates due.
From the work we have performed we consider the level of provisioning to be consistent with the evidence obtained.
88 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic report Financial statements Other information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition Group Refer to page 81 audit committee report, notes 3 and 4 of the financial For the sale and purchase, offshore and financial transactions near the statements and note 2.3 for the Directors disclosures of the related year-end, we tested that revenue cut-off was appropriately determined.
accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.
We selected a sample of transactions and agreed the details of these transactions to underlying contractual information or other supporting The Groups entitlement to commission revenue in the broking and documents which demonstrated the timing of when obligations had been financialsegments is usually dependent upon the fulfilment of certain fulfilled by the parties to the transaction.
obligations, for example stage completion of a vessel build in broking orformal approval of a debt or equity transaction in financial between We also tested a sample of transactions in securities, which included twoor more third parties over which the Group has no control.
anamount accrued as revenue at the year-end.
We understood the basisfor the revenue being recognised, including judgements applied Consideration is therefore required as to whether the parties obligations inrespect of the work completed by the year-end and the likelihood of have been fulfilled and the commission revenue can be recognised.
Some of these transactions, such as within the sale and purchase, From the evidence obtained we found no material instances of revenue offshoreor financial revenue streams, are individually significant in value.
being recognised in the incorrect period.
Consistent with the prior year, we therefore focused on these revenue streams, particularly transactions surrounding the year-end, where there isa risk thatlarge transactions may be recorded in the incorrect period.
The other revenue streams, such as support and research, were relatively less significant.
Revenue in respect of these streams is recognised when the service is completed or when the products are despatched, as explained further in note 2.21 of the financial statements.
There is therefore less judgement and risk of a material cut-off error in these streams.
Carrying value of goodwill Group Refer to page 81 audit committee report, notes 12 and 13 of the financial We evaluated the Directors future cash flow projections for all CGUs statements and note 2.3 for the Directors disclosures of the related witha particular focus on the offshore broking and securities CGUs and accounting policies, judgements and estimates for further information.
theprocess by which they were prepared, including comparing them withthe latest Board approved budget and forecasts, and testing the The goodwill balance of 289.6m is allocated across multiple cashaccuracy of the underlying calculations in the model.
We concluded that generating units CGUs, and is subject to an annual impairment review.
the cash flow projections were consistent with the Board approved Management prepared a value-in-use model to estimate the present value budgets and forecasts.
of forecast future cash flows for each CGU.
This was then compared with For the Directors key assumptions we: the carrying value of the net assets of each CGU including goodwill to determine if there was an impairment.
Compared the timing and quantum of short and long-term growth rates inthe forecasts against economic and industry forecasts and with the Determining if an impairment charge is required for goodwill involves actual historical results of the Group: significant judgements about forecast future performance and cash flows Assessed the discount rate by comparing the cost of capital for the of the CGUs, including growth in revenues and operating profit margins.
Group with comparable organisations and consulting with our own Italso involves determining an appropriate discount rate and long-term experts: and growth rate.
Considered the cyclical nature of each CGU and that this had been No charge for impairment of goodwill has been recognised in the appropriately factored into the long-term forecasts.
The risk that we focused on during the audit was thatthe goodwill may be overstated and that an impairment charge may We found the Directors assumptions to be supportable and the discount be required.
rate was within our expected range.
In particular, we focused on the goodwill in the offshore broking We also performed sensitivity analyses on the key drivers of the cash flow andsecurities CGUs which have been most affected by the economic projections including assumed profits, short and long-term growth rates conditions, as described in the business review section of this and the discount rate.
In performing these sensitivities we considered the annualreport.
level of historical budgeting inaccuracies and how the assumptions compared with the actual performance achieved in prior years.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that eitherindividually or collectively would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
We determined that the disclosures made in note 13 regarding the relatedassumptions appropriately draw attention to the significant areas ofjudgement.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Parent Company to communicate in our report.
com 89 Governance Independent Auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which the Group operates.
The financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or by component Auditors of other PwC network firms and other firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component Auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
These comprised certain operating business and centralised functions which required an audit of their complete financial information.
We also conducted specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions in respect of a number of other reporting units.
This gave us coverage of 90% of the Groups profit before taxation adjusted for acquisition related costs and 88% of revenue and, together with the additional procedures performed at the Group level, including testing the consolidation process, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Overall materiality 2.5m 2016: 2.2m.
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted for 1% of total assets reduced to an amount less acquisition related costs.
than the overall Group materiality.
Rationale for benchmark applied In arriving at this judgement we have had As the Parent Company does not have trading regardtoprofit before taxation, adjusted for activities, in our view a balance sheet benchmark acquisition related costs, because, in our view, represents the most appropriate measure.
thisrepresents the most appropriate measure However, as it is an in-scope component for our ofunderlying performance.
Group audit, we have reduced the materiality to anamount less than the Group amount.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 10,000 and 2.1m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 125,000 Group audit 2016: 100,000 and 105,000 Parent Company audit 2016: 95,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As not all attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate to guarantee as to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial as a going concern.
statements and the Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to going We have nothing to report.
concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
90 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic report Financial statements Other information Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the annual report other than the financial statements and our Auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the strategic report and Directors report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the strategic report and Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements CA06.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the strategic report and the Directors report CA06.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 43 of the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 43 of the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit Listing Rules.
Other Code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 86, that they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the annual report on pages 80 to 83 describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the Auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the CA06.
com 91 Governance Independent Auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 86, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the CA06 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting CA06 exception reporting Under the CA06 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Directors on 9 July 2009 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is nine years, covering the years ended 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2017.
John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 9 March 2018 92 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
