Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc only Report on the audit of the Financial Statements Opinion In our opinion: the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31st December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the Financial Statements of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related Notes 1 to 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and 1 to 11 for the Parent Company Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Acquisition accounting: focused on the valuation of intangible assets Revenue recognition Defined benefit pension liability valuation Materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be 9.8m 2016: 7.8m, which is based upon 5% 2016: 5% of statutory profit before tax.
Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 28 components.
These components represent the principal business units and account for 86% of the Groups total assets, 70% of the Groups revenue and 78% of the Groups profit before tax.
Significant changes in Last year our report included an inventory obsolescence key audit matter in respect of inventory in niche markets and our approach industries where local demand fluctuates over periods.
Whilst still an area of audit focus, this matter is not included in our report this year.
There has been no history of material error over previous years and we have considered the ratio of provision to inventory and the stable nature of the underlying balance and concluded inventory obsolescence is not considered to be a key audit matter for the Group Financial Statements.
114 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material to report, We have reviewed the Directors statement in Note 1 to the Financial Statements about whether they add or draw attention to in considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their respect of these matters.
identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and to Parent Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have Principal risks and viability statement nothing material to report, Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the add or draw attention to in knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the respect of these matters.
Directors assessment of the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 32 to 33 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors' confirmation on page 80 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 80 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Acquisition accounting: focused on the valuation of intangible assets Key audit matter The Group completed the acquisition of Gestra AG on 2nd May 2017 and Chromalox Inc on 3rd July 2017 with a total description initial consideration of 484.3m on a debt-free cash-free basis.
Given the two acquisitions in the current year, we have identified that there is a risk of material misstatement that acquisitions are not accounted correctly in line with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
We have pinpointed the key audit matter to the assumptions and assertions used by management to identify and value the separately identifiable intangible assets.
Intangible assets of 218.7m were identified as arising on these two acquisitions.
The valuation methodology applied is based on a number of assumptions and judgements such as identification of the primary intangibles, EBIT margin assumptions, discount and short term growth rates.
Refer to Note 1 for the Groups acquisition accounting policies including the key estimates and assumptions used in the intangibles valuation, Note 27 for the Groups disclosures on acquisitions in the year and the significant issues section of the Audit Committee Report.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 115 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued How the scope of our We have evaluated managements determination of the fair value of the net assets acquired, focusing on the valuation audit responded to the of intangible assets recognised at the acquisition date.
key audit matter We challenged managements methodology and assumptions underlying the valuation of intangible assets by: Performing walkthroughs to understand the adequacy of the design and implementation of controls relating to acquisition accounting.
Involving our internal valuation specialists to evaluate the valuation methodologies, including judgements around identification of primary intangibles, used by management and the Groups external valuation expert.
In consultation with our internal valuation specialists we audited key assumptions based on external market data including the EBIT margin, discount and short term growth rate.
We compared these rates to the rates used by management and the Groups external valuation expert.
Reperforming the calculations of the valuation of intangible assets.
Performing sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions used in the valuation model of acquired intangibles.
Assessing whether any evidence exists which contradicts the assumptions used in the valuation.
Key observations From the work performed above we are satisfied that managements key estimates, methodology and assumptions used in the valuations of acquired intangibles at the acquisition date fall within an acceptable range.
Revenue recognition Key audit matter The Group generates revenue primarily from the sale of goods with revenue being recognised on delivery or dispatch.
description There is a significant risk due to the potential for fraud through possible manipulation of this balance.
We have identified two key areas of focus in relation to revenue recognition.
There is a significant volume of trade in the final quarter of the year in certain components leading to the potential overstatement of revenue.
The key audit matter for these components focuses on the recognition of revenue by reference to contracted shipping terms and the transfer of ownership for product despatch and delivery spanning the year end.
There is a focus on any significant new and one-off contracts spanning the year end to determine whether any specific alternative revenue recognition policies are required.
Refer to Note 1 for the Groups revenue recognition policy and the significant issues section of the Audit Committee Report.
How the scope of our We performed walkthroughs to understand the adequacy of the design and implementation of the controls relating to audit responded to the the revenue cycle.
At significant components, we map the end to end controls and processes in place.
key audit matter We reviewed the product despatch cycle and revenue recognition profile across the year end period and sampled a selection of items confirming the date of transfer of ownership was in line with the revenue recognition date in accordance with the terms of trade with customers.
We focused our procedures on those components with a significant volume of trade in the final quarter.
We audited a sample of contracts spanning the year end to assess the terms of sale and the associated revenue recognition.
Key observations From the work performed above we are satisfied that there are no material cut-off errors and revenue recognition for significant new contracts is appropriate.
Defined benefit pension liability valuation Key audit matter At 31st December 2017 the gross retirement benefit liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position was description 543.0m 31st December 2016: 520.3m.
There is a risk of material misstatement relating to the judgements made by management in valuing the defined benefit pension liabilities including the use of key model input assumptions specifically the discount rate, mortality assumption and inflation level.
These variables can have a material impact in calculating the quantum of the retirement benefit liability.
Refer to Note 1 for the Groups policy on defined benefit plans, Note 24 for the financial disclosure including the key estimates and assumptions used in the defined benefit pension plan valuation and the significant issues section of the Audit Committee Report.
How the scope of our We used our internal actuarial experts to assess the key assumptions applied in determining the pension obligations audit responded to the for the five main pension schemes three in the UK, one in Germany and one in the US, and determined whether key audit matter the key assumptions are reasonable.
Testing covered 97.1% of defined benefit pension liabilities.
For each of the five schemes, we challenged managements key assumptions by reference to illustrative benchmark rates, sensitising any difference between managements rates and the illustrative benchmark rates.
Additionally we benchmarked the key assumptions against other listed companies to check for any outliers in the data used.
Key observations From the work performed above we are satisfied that the key assumptions applied in respect of the valuation of the schemes assets and liabilities are appropriate.
116 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Materiality 9.8m 2016: 7.8m 3.4m 2016: 3.5m Basis for determining materiality 5% of statutory profit before tax PBT for both Capped at component materiality being 40% 2017 and 2016.
2016: 45% of Group materiality Rationale for the benchmark Statutory profit before tax was used as the In determining our final materiality based on our applied benchmark for determining materiality as this professional judgement we have considered net is considered to be a key benchmark used assets as the appropriate measure given the Parent by investors.
Company is primarily a holding company for the Group.
We then capped materiality at component materiality for the Group.
Group materiality 9.8m PBT 192.5m Component materiality range 2.9m to 3.9m Audit Committee reporting threshold profit before tax PBT 0.49m Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 490,000 2016: 390,000 for the Group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 28 2016: 21 components.
25 2016: 20 of these were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining 3 components 2016: 1 component were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those components.
These components represent the principal business units and account for 86% 2016: 90% of the Groups total assets, 70% 2016: 69% of the Groups revenue and 78% 2016: 71% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 2.9m to 3.9m 2016: 2.7m to 3.9m.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the key components where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every three years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
In the current year and prior year we visited the UK, USA, China and Korean components.
In the current year we also visited the Chromalox US and Gestra Germany businesses and in the prior year we visited Italy and France.
As part of these visits, meetings were held with both component management and the component audit team.
For all components, we held close calls after they reported into us and as deemed necessary, conducted share screen reviews.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 117 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued 14% 1% 22% 30% profit before Revenue Total assets 7% tax 68% 71% 85% 2% Full audit scope Full audit scope Full audit scope specified audit specified audit specified audit procedures procedures procedures Review at Review at Review at Group level Group level Group level Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in We have nothing to the Annual Report including the Strategic Report and the Governance Report, but does not include the Financial report in respect of Statements and our Auditors Report thereon.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors Report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial Statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our Auditors Report.
118 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Financial Statements Use of our report This report is made solely to the Parent Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Parent Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Parent Company and the Parent Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: report in respect of we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or these matters.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors report in respect of remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement these matters.
with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Directors and subsequently at the AGM on 11th May 2014 to audit the Financial Statements for the year ended 31st December 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is four years, covering the years ended 31st December 2014 to 31st December 2017.
Consistency of the Audit Report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Mark Mullins FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London 14th March 2018 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 119 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
