Independent auditors report to the members of Savills plc To the best of our knowledge and belief, we Provisions for litigation Group Report on the audit of the declare that non-audit services prohibited by Recoverability of trade receivables financial statements the FRCs Ethical Standard were not Group Opinion provided to the Group or the Company.
Regulatory compliance obligations In our opinion, Savills plcs Group financial Other than those disclosed in the Directors Group and Company statements and Company financial Report, we have provided no non-audit statements the financial statements : Accounting for acquisition of Aguirre services to the Group or the Company in the Newman Group period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December give a true and fair view of the state of the 2017.
Groups and of the Companys affairs as The scope of our audit at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups As part of planning our audit, we Our audit approach profit and the Groups and the determined materiality and assessed the Context Companys cash flows for the year then risks of material misstatement in the ended: Savills plc is listed on the London Stock financial statements.
In particular, we Exchange and is structured across four have been properly prepared in looked at where the directors made business lines: Transactional Advisory, accordance with IFRSs as adopted by subjective judgements, for example in Property Consultancy, Property and Facilities the European Union and, as regards the respect of significant accounting estimates Management, and Investment Management Companys financial statements, as that involved making assumptions and Services.
The Group financial statements are applied in accordance with the provisions considering future events that are a consolidation of reporting units that make of the Companies Act 2006: and inherently uncertain.
up the four business lines, spread across four have been prepared in accordance with geographical regions: UK, North America, We gained an understanding of the legal and the requirements of the Companies Act Europe and Asia Pacific.
regulatory framework applicable to the 2006 and, as regards the Group financial group and the industry in which it operates, statements, Article 4 of the IAS Overview and considered the risk of acts by the Group Regulation.
which were contrary to applicable laws and Materiality We have audited the financial statements, regulations, including fraud.
We designed Overall Group materiality: 7.0 million included within the Report and Accounts the audit procedures at Group and significant 2016: 6.8 million, based on 5% of Annual Report, which comprise: the component level to respond to the risk, Group underlying profit before tax as Consolidated and Company statements of recognising that the risk of not detecting a defined in note 2.2 to the financial financial position as at 31 December 2017: material misstatement due to fraud is higher statements.
the Consolidated income statement, the than the risk of not detecting one resulting Consolidated statement of comprehensive Overall parent company materiality: 2.3 from error, as fraud may involve deliberate income, the Consolidated and Company million 2016: 2.3 million, based on 1% concealment by, for example, forgery or statements of changes in equity and the of total assets.
intentional misrepresentations, or through Consolidated and Company statements of collusion.
We focused on laws and cash flows for the year then ended: and the Audit scope regulations that could give rise to a material notes to the financial statements, which misstatement in the Group and Company We conducted audit work in the UK, include a description of the significant financial statements, including those relating Germany, Spain, US, Hong Kong, China, accounting policies.
to financial services and real estate services South Korea, Singapore, Japan and across the Group.
Our tests included Australia, and across all four of the Our opinion is consistent with our reporting discussing compliance with internal legal Groups business lines.
counsel, reviewing correspondence with the Audits of the complete financial Groups solicitors and examining litigation Basis for opinion information were performed on the costs incurred by the Group over the We conducted our audit in accordance businesses in the UK, US, Hong Kong, financial year.
There are inherent limitations with International Standards on Auditing Shanghai China Central, Australia and in the audit procedures described above UK 'ISAs UK ' and applicable law.
Our South Korea, as well as the German and the further removed non-compliance responsibilities under ISAs UK are further Investment Management business.
with laws and regulations is from the events described in the Auditors responsibilities We carried out procedures on parts of and transactions reflected in the financial for the audit of the financial statements the business which accounted for 86% statements, the less likely we would become section of our report.
We believe that the 2016: 83% of Group revenues and 91% aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit audit evidence we have obtained is 2016: 92% of Group underlying profit matters relating to irregularities, including sufficient and appropriate to provide a before tax.
As in all of our audits we also basis for our opinion.
addressed the risk of management override Key audit matters of internal controls, including testing journals Independence and evaluating whether there was evidence Goodwill impairment assessment We remained independent of the Group in of bias by the Directors that represented a particularly for European businesses accordance with the ethical requirements risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
and the US Group that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to cut-off for transaction income FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have in the investment management and transactional advisory businesses fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Group Savills plc 78 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill impairment assessment particularly for Focusing on the US and Sweden businesses, we evaluated and European businesses and the US Group challenged the Directors future cash flow forecasts and the process Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 94 and by which they were drawn up, and tested the underlying value in use Significant Accounting policies and pages 119 to 121 notes.
We compared managements forecast with the latest Board-approved budget and found them to be consistent.
The Group carried 351.3m of goodwill at 31 December 2017 2016: 309.8m of which 57.8m related to new acquisitions We challenged: made during 2017. the key assumptions for short and long term growth rates in the The carrying value of goodwill is contingent on future cash flows forecasts by comparing them with historical results, as well as of the underlying cash generating units CGUs and there is a risk economic and industry forecasts for the relevant international that if these cash flows do not meet the Directors expectations, the property markets: and goodwill will be impaired.
the discount rate used in the calculations by assessing the cost of capital for the Group and comparable organisations, and The Groups performance in Europe improved during 2017 with the assessed the specific risk premium applied to each CGU exception of Sweden, where an impairment charge of 2.3m was inquestion.
recognised reflecting recent performance in challenging market conditions.
After the impairment charge, the value of the Sweden We performed sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions within CGU at 31 December 2017 was 2.7m.
There was significant the cash flow forecasts.
This included sensitising the discount headroom in managements impairment models for the other rate applied to the future cash flows, and the short and longer European CGUs.
term growth rates and profit margins.
We ascertained the extent to which a reduction in these assumptions both individually or in We focused our assessment on the US, which holds 148.1m of aggregate would result in goodwill impairment, and considered goodwill and other intangible assets, as the profitability of that the likelihood of such events occurring.
We did not regard this to business declined in 2017. be reasonably possible.
We were satisfied that the impairment charge recorded in Sweden was reasonable and that no other goodwill impairments were required in the 2017 financial statements.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition in relation to cut-off For material transactions, we evaluated the commercial rationale and for transaction income in the investment management the revenue recognition process adopted and determined that the and transactional advisory businesses Group related revenue had been recorded on a consistent basis across the Refer to page 98 note 2 to the financial statements for the Group in accordance with Group policies and applicable IFRSs.
Directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, We tested a sample of revenue transactions to underlying contracts judgments and estimates.
and third party completion documentation, for example, property Our specific audit focus was on the risk that revenue may be sales completion statements, or asset or property management recorded in the incorrect period in respect of transaction fees in the contracts, determining that these sales had taken place and were transactional advisory and investment management businesses, in recorded in the correct period.
light of the incentive schemes for management in those businesses There were no material issues identified by our testing of revenue designed to reward performance.
The recognition of revenue is largely dependent on the date the underlying transaction is deemed to be completed, which is typically the point at which unconditional exchange has been achieved.
Savills plc 79 Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Provisions for litigation Group In order to assess the accuracy and completeness of the provisions Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 97 Significant held at the balance sheet date, we performed the following Accounting Policies and page 105 notes.
procedures: The Group is subject to a number of legal claims in the normal Obtained and read the legal claim letters and accompanying third course of business.
The calculation of provisions against these party documentation received by the Group: claims is judgmental, given the range of possible outcomes on Obtained and read the legal insurance contract, and verified that each claim.
The number of new claims has continued to decline the terms were appropriately accounted for: in recent years.
Met with the Groups internal and external legal counsels to Our audit procedures took into account both the potential exposure consider in detail a number of cases, including the potential and the extent to which liabilities are likely to crystallise, as well as exposure after taking into account the Groups insurance cover: the adequacy of the insurance cover held by the Group.
Checked the amounts and other details in respect of each new claim to the relevant supporting documentation: Reviewed the outcome of prior year estimates of litigation provisions to help assess the reliability of the estimates this year: Reviewed the legal cases settled during the year and, where relevant, traced the related cash payments to bank statements: and Examined board minutes, legal expenses incurred during the year and any litigation-related matters arising after the year-end.
We determined based on these procedures that the Directors had made reasonable judgments in their assessment process for determining the level of provision held.
Our procedures did not identify any further legal cases other than those identified by management.
Recoverability of trade receivables Group Requested confirmations for a sample of client debtor balances: Where a response to our request was not received, we sought to Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 95 Significant agree the relevant trade receivables balances to post year end Accounting Policies and page 130 notes.
cash receipts: The Group is exposed to a risk of default in respect of trade Where both a response and cash had not been received post receivables, and there is therefore a risk that the net valuation of year-end, we performed alternative procedures, by agreeing receivables could be overstated.
This risk is factored into our audit amounts recorded to underlying sales contracts and completion approach with respect to the provision against trade receivables.
documentation: Discussed and assessed the reasons that the amounts were not In order to test the recoverability of trade receivables, we performed yet paid with local management teams.
We also evaluated the the following procedures: Group's credit control procedures, and assessed the ageing profile of trade receivables, focusing on older debts: We challenged management as to the recoverability of the older, unprovided amounts, corroborating management explanations with underlying documentation and correspondence with the customer: and We inspected managements bad debt provision calculations and ensured that these were consistent with Group policy, and that they provided appropriate cover over older uncollected debts We did not encounter any issues through these audit procedures that indicated further provisioning against trade receivables was required.
Based upon the above, we are satisfied that management had taken reasonable judgments that were supported by the available evidence in respect of the relevant receivables.
Savills plc 80 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Regulatory compliance obligations Group and Company We updated our understanding of the legal and regulatory framework The Group is subject to Financial Services, Chartered Surveyor, tax, within which the Group operates, discussed the Groups approach anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws and regulations across to regulatory compliance with management and with internal legal a number of jurisdictions in which it operates.
counsel, and evaluated managements internal control procedures.
The Company is subject to those laws and regulations applicable We considered that appropriate procedures are in place to identify in the UK.
any instances of non-compliance that would have a material impact on the results and reputation of the business.
Failure to comply with any of these applicable laws and regulations could have a material impact on the results of the Group and the We read relevant correspondence with regulators to support reputation for integrity on which it relies.
managements assertions, as well as board minutes and internal audit reports.
We examined legal expense accounts and considered The Directors did not identify any material instances of nonthe results of our audit work in other areas to determine whether compliance in the year.
there was any evidence of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
We identified no evidence of such instances of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Accounting for acquisition of Aguirre Newman Group In order to test the components of the acquisition, we performed the Refer to page 54 Audit Committee Report, page 94 Significant following procedures: Accounting Policies and page 126 notes.
Reviewed technical papers prepared by management in respect The Group completed the acquisition of Aguirre Newman, a of the acquisition and inspected all relevant contracts and Spanish real estate advisory business, on 29 December 2017. information: Tested the adjustments made to carve out the net assets of the The acquisition did not include Aguirre Newmans South American Aguirre Newman South American business from the acquired business, which was carved out of the acquisition balance sheet.
balance sheet: Accounting for the acquisition required a provisional fair value Assessed the provisional fair value calculation of the assets exercise, including valuing separately identifiable intangible assets.
acquired, including assessing the completeness and quantum of adjustments made by management: This can be a particularly subjective process, given the range of assumptions that are adopted to determine the valuations, including Reviewed the work performed on the purchase price allocations the applicable discount rate used in the fair value calculations.
by managements external experts, to ensure that the relevant intangible assets have been appropriately identified and Based on an exercise performed by external valuation experts, reasonably valued: the Directors identified 3.4m of intangibles relating to Aguirre Evaluated the competency and objectivity of managements Newmans brand, order back-log and its customer contracts external valuation expert: and relationships.
Challenged the key assumptions used in the valuation model, including the discount rate Challenged managements identification and valuation of other known and contingent liabilities associated with Aguirre Newman: Understood what management have done to assess the control environment of the entity and align accounting practices: and Based upon the above, we are satisfied that the Directors had taken reasonable judgments in accounting for the acquisition of Aguirre Newman.
Savills plc 81 Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
Taken together, our full scope audit procedures accounted for 86% 2016: 83% of Group revenues and 91% 2016: 92% of Group underlying profit before tax.
The Groups accounting process is structured around a local finance function in each of the territories in which the Group operates.
In Europe, these functions maintain their own accounting records and controls and report to a Head Office finance team in the UK through submission of management reporting packs.
In Asia Pacific, these functions similarly report to a regional finance team in Hong Kong, and in the US the local functions report to the US finance team in New York.
At a Group level, a separate finance team consolidates the reporting packs of Europe, Asia Pacific, UK, North America and the central functions.
In our view, due to their significance and or risk characteristics, as defined in our areas of focus, those businesses in the UK and US, Hong Kong, Shanghai China Central and Australia within the Asia Pacific region, and the German Investment Management business, required an audit of their complete financial information.
We used component auditors from PwC network firms who are familiar with the local laws and regulations in each of the identified territories outside the UK to perform this audit work.
Specific risk-based audit procedures were performed by local teams in Beijing, Chengdu, Tokyo and Singapore, focusing on revenue and receivables based on the audit risks we had identified in these areas.
Specific audit procedures were also performed by a local team in Spain over the Aguirre Newman balance sheet, following the acquisition on 29 December 2017.
Based upon Group materiality, we did not carry out detailed audit procedures on Savills Europe other than Aguirre Newman.
Local audit teams perform statutory audits of subsidiary companies in Europe where required by local legislation.
These audits were carried out to the same timetable as the Group audit and, accordingly, we were able to incorporate the results of their work into our overall risk assessment.
In order to direct and supervise the Group audit, the Group engagement team sent detailed instructions to significant component audit teams.
This included communication of the areas of focus above and other required communications.
The Group engagement team held regular meetings throughout the year with all significant component audit teams.
The Group team visited the audit teams located at the Savills Asia Pacific head office in Hong Kong, given the significance of this region to the Group, the US head office in New York, and also visited Savills regional offices in Shanghai and Beijing.
This ensured that we had a comprehensive understanding of the results of their work particularly insofar as it related to the identified areas of focus.
The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by the Group engagement team at the head office.
These included pensions, tax and share-based payments.
Taken together, these procedures gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality 7.0 million 2016: 6.8 million.
How we 5% of Group underlying profit before tax as defined in note 2.2 to the 1% of total assets of the Company.
Rationale for Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality by We determined that as the Company is a benchmark applying a benchmark of 5% of underlying profit before tax.
We believe non-trading holding company, total assets applied that underlying profit before tax is the most appropriate measure as to be an appropriate benchmark.
it eliminates any disproportionate effect of exceptional charges and provides a consistent year-on-year basis for our work.
It is the key measure used by management and the Groups investors.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 1.0 million and 5.7 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.3 million Group audit 2016: 0.3 million and 0.3 million Company audit 2016: 0.3 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Savills plc 82 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We have nothing material to add or to draw respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the directors attention to.
As not all future events or considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the conditions can be predicted, this statement financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at Companys ability to continue as a going least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going Concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confirmation on page 26 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 29 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Savills plc 83 Report and Accounts 2017 Independent auditors report continued Other Code Provisions Auditors responsibilities for the audit Appointment of the financial statements We have nothing to report in respect of our Following the recommendation of the Audit responsibility to report when: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable Committee, we were appointed by the assurance about whether the financial members on 30 April 2001 to audit the The statement given by the Directors, on statements as a whole are free from material financial statements for the year ended page 76, that they consider the Annual misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 31December 2002 and subsequent Report taken as a whole to be fair, and to issue an auditors report that includes financial periods.
The period of our total balanced and understandable, and our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high uninterrupted engagement is 16 years, provides the information necessary for level of assurance, but is not a guarantee covering the years ended 31 December the members to assess the Groups and that an audit conducted in accordance with 2002 to 31 December 2017.
Companys position and performance, ISAs UK will always detect a material business model and strategy is materially misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements inconsistent with our knowledge of the can arise from fraud or error and are John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor Group and Company obtained in the considered material if, individually or in the course of performing our audit.
for and on behalf of aggregate, they could reasonably be  LLP expected to influence the economic The section of the Annual Report on page Chartered Accountants and Statutory decisions of users taken on the basis of 54 describing the work of the Audit Auditors these financial statements.
Committee does not appropriately London address matters communicated by us to A further description of our responsibilities the Audit Committee.
14 March 2018 for the audit of the financial statements is The Directors statement relating to the located on the FRCs website at: www.
Companys compliance with the Code org.
This does not properly disclose a departure description forms part of our auditors report.
from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for Use of this report review by the auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Directors Remuneration Companys members as a body in In our opinion, the part of the Directors accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Remuneration Report to be audited has Companies Act 2006 and for no other been properly prepared in accordance with purpose.
We do not, in giving these the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person Responsibilities for the financial to whom this report is shown or into whose statements and the audit hands it may come save where expressly Responsibilities of the directors for the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
financial statements Other required reporting As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement set out on page 76, Companies Act 2006 exception the Directors are responsible for the reporting preparation of the financial statements in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are accordance with the applicable framework required to report to you if, in our opinion: and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also we have not received all the information responsible for such internal control as they and explanations we require for our audit: determine is necessary to enable the or preparation of financial statements that are adequate accounting records have not free from material misstatement, whether been kept by the Company, or returns due to fraud or error.
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: In preparing the financial statements, the or Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern made: or and using the going concern basis of the Company financial statements and accounting unless the Directors either intend the part of the Directors Remuneration to liquidate the Group or the Company or to Report to be audited are not in agreement cease operations, or have no realistic with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Savills plc 84 Report and Accounts 2017
