Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC Opinion to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or We have audited the Financial Statements of Fidelity European assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Values PLC for the year ended 31 December 2017, which Companys Members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Statement or for the opinions we have formed.
of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 19, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation viability statement is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally in the Annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to Accepted Accounting Practice.
report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: In our opinion, the Financial Statements: the disclosures in the Annual report set out on pages 10 and 11 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are give a true and fair view of the Companys aairs as at being managed or mitigated: 31December 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United the Directors conrmation set out on page 27 in the Annual Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or the Companies Act 2006. liquidity: Basis for opinion the Directors statement set out on page 22 in the Annual We conducted our audit in accordance with International report about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and responsibilities under those standards are further described in the their identication of any material uncertainties to the entitys Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Statements ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve section of our report below.
We are independent of the Company months from the date of approval of the financial statements: in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern our audit of the Financial Statements in the UK, including the FRCs required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Ethical Standard as applied to public interest entities, and we have Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these obtained in the audit: or requirements.
the Directors explanation set out on page 12 in the Annual We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as Use of our report to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary state to the Companys members those matters we are required qualications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Incomplete or inaccurate investments and derivatives income recognition and specically the recognition of special dividends, including incorrect allocation between revenue and capital Valuation and existence of listed investments and derivatives Materiality Overall materiality of 10.30m 2016: 8.70m which represents 1% of the Companys Net Asset Value as at 31 December 2017.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 35 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC continued Key audit matters fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of Statements of the current period and include the most significant the Financial Statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk AuditCommittee Incomplete or inaccurate investments and We have performed the following procedures: The results of our procedures derivatives income recognition and specically identied no issues with Walked through the revenue recognition the recognition of special dividends, including the accuracy, classication process, including recognition of special incorrect allocation between revenue and or completeness of income dividends, to obtain an understanding of the capital receipts, including special design eectiveness of the controls: Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee page dividends.
Agreed a sample of dividends to the 34 : Accounting policies page 43 : and Note 3 of We noted no exceptions corresponding announcements made by the the Financial Statements page 45. in agreeing the sample investee company and agreed cash received to The Company has reported revenue of 29.38m of dividend income from bank statements: 2016: 27.00m.
investments and derivatives Agreed, for a sample of investee companies, to and from the independent We identied the incomplete or inaccurate the dividend announcements made by the source and to the bank recognition of special dividends to be a fraud risk investee company from an external third party statements.
We noted due to the requirement to exercise judgement and source to the income entitlements recorded by no issues in agreeing manual processing.
the Company: the accrued dividend to Special dividends by their nature require the an independent source Agreed material accrued investment and exercise of judgement as to whether the income and post year end bank derivative dividends to an independent source receivable should be classied as revenue statement.
and to post year end bank statement to assess or capital for S1158 Corporation Tax Act the recoverability of these amounts: We confirmed the 2010 CTA purposes.
The revenue column of appropriate accounting For the sample selected, we compared the the income statement is the main driver of the classication adopted for exchange rate used to translate the investment minimum dividend calculation.
There is therefore a material special dividends and derivative dividend income received in risk that an incorrect classication could potentially as revenue or capital, foreign currency to an independent source: result in an under distribution of income and put including the classication the Companys investment trust status at risk.
Considered the recognition criteria applied to of the 1.82m dividend from the special dividends received during the year The largest three special dividends received by the Swedish Match as capital, and their classication as revenue or capital.
Company during the year were from: as well as 0.72m from DKSH Holding and 0.63m Swedish Match 1.82m : from CHR Hansen Holdings DKSH Holding 0.72m : as revenue.
Given the degree of judgement involved, we considered there to be a potential fraud risk in relation to special dividends, in accordance with Auditing Standards, in this area of our audit.
36 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk AuditCommittee Valuation and existence of listed investments We have performed the following procedures: For all listed investments and derivatives and derivatives, we noted Independently valued 100% of the listed Refer to the Report of the Audit Committee page no material dierences in investments and derivatives prices in the 34 : Accounting policies page 44 : and Notes 10, market value or exchange portfolio using independent data provider, 11 of the Financial Statements pages 49 and 50. rates.
and compared to those values of the Company: We noted no exceptions The valuation of investments and derivatives as or discrepancies between at 31 December 2017 was 1,008.19m 2016: For those investments priced in currencies the Custodian and Brokers 862.20m, comprising 1,011.11m 2016: other than UK sterling we compared the conrmations and the 862.75m of investments and 2.92 m 2016: exchange rates to an independent source and Companys underlying 0.60 m of net derivatives.
recalculated value of those investments: and financial records.
The existence and valuation of the assets held in Agreed 100% of the holdings in the the investment portfolio and derivatives is the key investment portfolio and derivatives to driver of the Companys net asset value and total third party conrmations received from the return.
Incorrect asset pricing or a failure to maintain proper legal title of the assets held by the Company could have a significant impact on portfolio valuation and, therefore, the return generated for shareholders.
The risks of material misstatement are the same as in the prior the performance of the Company and it is a generally accepted year, unless indicated otherwise.
auditing practice for investment trust audits.
Performance materiality An overview of the scope of our audit The application of materiality at the individual account or balance Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected scope for the Company.
This enables us to form an opinion on misstatements exceeds materiality.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of controls, On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment including controls and changes in the business environment when of the Companys overall control environment, our judgement assessing the level of work to be performed.
was that performance materiality was 75% 2016: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 7.72m 2016: 4.40m.
We have Our application of materiality increased performance materiality to this percentage based on We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing our experience of the first year audit that indicated a lower risk of the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
The Company is a single company and all audit work was performed directly by the Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and audit engagement team.
capital for the Company, we also applied a separate testing threshold of 1.00m 2016: 1.00m for the revenue column of the Materiality Income Statement, being 5% of the net revenue return on ordinary The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually activities before taxation 2016: 5%.
or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Reporting threshold Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent An amount below which identified misstatements are considered of our audit procedures.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to We determined materiality for the Company to be 10.30 million them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.51m 2016: 2016: 8.70 million, which is 1% 2016: 1% of the Net Asset 0.40m, which is set at 5% 2016: 5% of planning materiality, Value of the Company.
We have used the Net Asset Value of as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, the Company as the basis for setting materiality as it provides warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
the most important financial metric on which shareholders judge Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 37 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Fidelity European Values PLC continued We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light Corporate Governance Code.
of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Other information In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to The other information comprises the information included in the be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Annual report set out on page 23, including the Strategic Report Companies Act 2006. set out on pages 8 to 13 and Directors Report set out on pages 22 to 24, other than the Financial Statements and our Auditors In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other audit: information.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other Report for the financial year for which the financial statements information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
the Strategic Report and Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Matters on which we are required to report by exception consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material Directors Report.
misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement you if, in our opinion: of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns We have nothing to report in this regard.
adequate for our audit have not been received by us: or the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the accounting records and returns: or the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law those items meet the following conditions: are not made: or Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 32 we have not received all the information and explanations we the statement given by the Directors that they consider the require for our audit.
Annual report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Responsibilities of Directors information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors performance, business model and strategy, is materially Responsibilities set out on page 32, the Directors are responsible inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 33 and 34 control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does preparation of Financial Statements that are free from material not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Audit Committee: or In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a Governance Code set out on page 25 the parts of the going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly 38 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the Statements Financial Statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether This description forms part of our Auditors report.
the Financial Statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Other matters we are required to address auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit We were appointed by the Company on 12 May 2016 and conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a reappointed on 15 May 2017 to audit the Financial Statements material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from for the year ending 31 December 2017. fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the The period of total uninterrupted engagement including aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the previous renewals and reappointments is 2 years, covering the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial years ending 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered Standard were not provided to the Company and we remain capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud independent of the Company in conducting the audit.
The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit Audit Committee.
evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate Matthew Price responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected Senior Statutory Auditor fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests Statutory Auditor with both those charged with governance of the entity and London management.
14 March 2018 Notes: Our approach was as follows: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Fidelity International web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements frameworks that are applicable to the Company and since they were initially presented on the web site.
determined that the most significant are the Companies Act 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of 2006, the Listing Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
We understood how Fidelity European Values PLC is complying with those frameworks through discussions with the Audit Committee and Company Secretary and review of the Companys documented policies and procedures.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved review of the reporting to the Directors with respect to the application of the documented policies and procedures and review of the financial statements to ensure compliance with the reporting requirements of the Company.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Companys Financial Statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the key risks impacting the financial statements.
We identied a fraud risk with respect to incomplete or inaccurate investments and derivatives income recognition and specically the recognition of special dividends, including incorrect allocation between revenue and capital.
Further discussion of our approach is set out in the section on key audit matters above.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 39 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
