INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BGEO GROUP PLC OPINION In our opinion: BGEO Group PLCs Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of BGEO Group PLC which comprise: Group Parent Company consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017 separate statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017 consolidated income statement for the year then ended separate statement of changes in equity for the year then ended consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year separate statement of cash flows for the year then ended then ended related notes 1 to 36 to the effect they apply to the Parent Company consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended financial statements, including a summary of significant consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended accounting policies related notes 1 to 36 to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 34 to 37 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 96 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 140 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement relating to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 33 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
118 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters Monitoring of credit quality and appropriateness of allowance for loan losses Revenue recognition, including the application of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers to the 2 Banking Business, JSC m Real Estate, Georgia Healthcare Group PLC and Georgian Global Utilities Ltd Valuation of land and office buildings, hospitals and clinics, infrastructure assets and investment properties Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of five components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further one component.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 98% of Profit before non-recurring items and tax, 91% of Revenue and 96% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of GEL 25 million which represents 5% of pre-tax profit adjusted for non-recurring items.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee MONITORING OF CREDIT QUALITY AND We performed a walkthrough of the loan loss allowance Although the loan loss APPROPRIATENESS OF ALLOWANCE process and assessed the design and operating allowance is by nature FOR LOAN LOSSES effectiveness of key controls.
highly judgmental, based LOAN LOSS ALLOWANCE GEL 279.3M, We tested key controls over the collective loan loss provision, on the results of our which included controls over the identification of loans to be audit procedures, we 2016: GEL 255.3M, INCLUDING GEL included in the collective assessment, collective provisioning concluded that the loan 2.4M ATTRIBUTABLE TO FINANCE LEASE model inputs, key model assumptions and calculations.
loss allowance is in the RECEIVABLE 31 DECEMBER 2016: GEL 2.5M We tested key controls over the specific loan loss middle of a reasonable provision, which addressed aspects such as the range as at 31 December The allowance for loan losses is highly judgmental classification of borrowers into their respective risk grades, 2017. and changes in assumptions could have a material calculation of days past due, and the recalculation of the impact on reported profits.
loan loss allowance, including the valuation of collateral.
For the collective loan loss provision, we critically assessed The allowance for loan losses is calculated using the appropriateness of the collective provisioning a combination of a collective provisioning model methodology as well as the assumptions and data inputs and specific loan provisions based on discounted into the model with reference to our understanding of the cash flow analyses.
Both collective and specific business, relevant accounting standards and market provisions depend on a number of assumptions practices, recalculated the collective loan loss provision on and judgments, the most important of which are a sample basis and analysed the sensitivity of provisions to managements assessment of credit risk, estimates changes in key model inputs.
of future cash flows and valuations of collateral.
For specific loan loss provisions, we assessed the recoverability of loan exposures on a sample basis and As a consequence of the judgment involved in ensured the appropriateness of the provision as at the establishing the allowance, there is a greater risk balance sheet date, including reviewing the Groups of misstatement in this balance, either by fraud documented credit assessment of the borrowers, or error, including through the potential override challenging assumptions relating to future cash flow of controls by management.
projections and the valuation of collateral held.
We verified the appropriate restriction of the property The level of risk is consistent with the prior year.
pledged as collateral to the Georgian public real estate Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 92 : register.
Accounting policies page 147 : and Note 11 to For real estate collateral where the valuation changed by the Consolidated Financial Statements.
more than 10% compared to the prior year and for new real estate collateral we reviewed the details of the current year valuation and validated the reasonableness of the new value by benchmarking major inputs to publicly available market data.
For equipment pledged which is considered by the Group as a source of cash flows for loan repayment in certain cases for individually significant borrowers we reconciled the values to the supporting documentation and compared to market values of such equipment.
We compared the valuation of collateral to the actual values of sales of similar repossessed properties by the Group.
We analysed a sample of restructured loans and the Groups documented assessment to provide assurance that any loans that have been subject to forbearance have been appropriately classified and reported.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 119 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee REVENUE RECOGNITION, INCLUDING THE We gained an understanding of the revenue processes Based on the results of APPLICATION OF IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM and assessed the design and operating effectiveness our audit procedures, we CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS TO THE of key controls.
concluded that revenue 2 BANKING BUSINESS, JSC M REAL ESTATE, We performed substantive testing of revenue transactions for the year ended GEORGIA HEALTHCARE GROUP PLC AND at the Banking and the Investment Businesses including 31 December 2017 GEORGIAN GLOBAL UTILITIES LTD key items testing and representative sampling where we has been recognised in agreed transactions to the underlying documentation, accordance with IFRS.
GROSS REVENUE GEL 2,482M, testing manual and topside adjustments and cut-off INCLUDING GEL 763M ATTRIBUTABLE testing by selecting a sample of transactions either In particular, we TO DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 2016: side of year-end.
concluded that the GEL 1,816M, INCLUDING GEL 422M We agreed transactions on a sample basis in each of the Group applied IFRS 15 ATTRIBUTABLE TO DISCONTINUED in-scope components to supporting evidence, including appropriately in all OPERATIONS underlying contracts and cash receipts to determine material respects as whether revenue had been recognised in accordance at 1 January 2017, The separate listing of Georgia Healthcare Group with the Groups accounting policies and IFRS.
Where 31 December 2017 PLC GHG and the announced demerger of appropriate, we re-computed revenue and compared and for the year ended Banking and Investment Businesses of the Group to reported amounts.
The samples used for this testing 31 December 2017. could potentially result in pressure on management were increased to reflect that revenue recognition is a to report strong financial performance, including significant risk.
We performed contract reviews with respect to products 2 of the Banking Business, m Real Estate, GGU and GHG The Group has early adopted IFRS 15 for the and validated the identification of performance obligations.
As allowed by the standard, it is We performed substantive audit procedures over the applied prospectively from 1 January 2017, IFRS 15 adjustments, covering the timing of satisfaction with no restatement of comparatives.
of performance obligations, allocation of transaction price to each performance obligation and estimation of variable In applying IFRS 15, judgement is required to be consideration amounts, if applicable, including analytical exercised by management in determining the point procedures, testing of key items and representative sample at which it is appropriate to recognise revenue, and testing.
in particular the nature of performance obligations We performed analytical procedures for revenue at legal and the allocation of the contract price to those entity level to consider unusual trends that could indicate obligations.
Specific considerations include: material misstatements, including monthly fluctuations analysis and analysis of changes in key drivers of revenue.
The timing of recognition of revenue in respect We performed journal entry testing in order to identify and of card servicing fees, bundled products and test the risk of misstatement arising from management customer loyalty schemes in the Banking override of controls.
Business We considered whether the presentation and disclosure The treatment of corrections and rebates in of revenue in the financial statements is in accordance GHGs hospital business with relevant accounting standards.
The measurement of revenue in respect of loyalty schemes and exchange transactions in GHG The manner in which revenue is recognised over the period of construction sale of apartments in 2 JSC m Real Estate The timing of recognition of revenue arising from up-front connection and water meter installation fees in GGU The total adjustment in respect of the above as at 1 January 2017 was a deferral of revenue of GEL 29m.
As with any major new accounting standard, there is a risk that the Group does not apply IFRS 15 appropriately.
The Groups accounting systems are not configured to allow automated IFRS 15 accounting for revenue and the adjustments to conform to the requirements of IFRS 15 are booked as an overlay.
These factors mean that there is a greater risk of misstatement in revenue balances, either by fraud or error, including through the potential override of controls by management.
The risk has increased in the current year as a result of the announced demerger and the early adoption of IFRS 15.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 92 : the Accounting policies pages 152-154 : and Notes 3, 6, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
120 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee VALUATION OF LAND AND OFFICE We engaged our real estate specialists to evaluate the Based on the results of BUILDINGS, HOSPITALS AND CLINICS, appropriateness of the Groups valuations of investment our audit procedures, 2 INFRASTRUCTURE ASSETS AND properties of the Banking Business and m, infrastructure we concluded that: INVESTMENT PROPERTIES assets of GGU and hospitals and clinics of GHG, including The voluntary change NET BOOK VALUE OF GEL 1,352M, the following: in the accounting INCLUDING GEL 429M ATTRIBUTABLE we evaluated the competence, professional policy for subsequent qualifications and objectivity of the external valuers measurement of office TO ASSETS OF DISPOSAL GROUPS engaged by the Group: buildings and service AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS through reading the valuation reports and discussion centres from the 2016: GEL 1,188M with management and the valuers, we obtained an revaluation model understanding of the objectives and scope of the to the cost model is The Group applies the revaluation model for valuers work, the methods and assumptions that they justified as it results in the measurement of its infrastructure assets and had used and the conclusions that they had reached: financial statements hospitals and clinics and the fair value model for we challenged the methods and assumptions used providing more investment properties.
in the valuation reports, including consideration as to relevant and reliable whether there was contrary market intelligence that had information to users, in During the year, the Group voluntarily changed the not been taken into account in the valuers analyses: particular, it improves accounting policy for subsequent measurement for a sample of 69 items for which specific valuations the comparability of of its office buildings and service centres including were performed, we verified the data, and assessed the the financial related land from the revaluation model to the cost appropriateness of the methods and assumptions, logic information with other model.
The Group restated each of the affected and reasoning applied by the valuers.
To the extent banking groups.
historical financial statement line items for the prior possible we compared this information to norms and In respect of the periods as if the cost model in respect of that class benchmarks in the Georgian market: and valuation of investment of property and equipment had been always applied.
in respect of the valuation of infrastructure assets properties, hospitals we involved our valuation specialists and challenged and clinics and Individual items of investment properties and GHG managements key assumptions, their consistency infrastructure assets, hospitals and clinics were revalued as at the year end.
with GGUs business plans and externally available certain assumptions information.
We tested the underlying calculations, and, consequently, the The fair value of the GGU infrastructure assets verified the validity of the data inputs and the valuations as a whole as at 31 December 2017 was determined using appropriateness of assumptions applied.
were towards the less the income approach.
Based on the analysis We ensured the appropriate recognition of the results of the conservative end of, performed by the independent valuer, management valuations in accordance with IAS 16 Property, Plant and but within a reasonable concluded that this fair value for the period since Equipment and IAS 40 Investment Property.
range as at the last valuation date did not significantly change.
We challenged managements justification for a change 31 December 2017. in the accounting policy in respect of subsequent Real estate valuations are inherently uncertain and measurement of office buildings and service centres, subject to an estimation process.
Furthermore, the analysed it for conformity with the requirements of IFRSs Groups real estate properties and infrastructure and ensured the appropriateness of proposed accounting assets are located primarily in Georgia, where the treatment, including the adjustments made by management secondary market is relatively illiquid, particularly to restate the prior periods balances in that respect.
in respect of hospitals and clinics.
Although the valuations are performed by appropriately qualified valuers, there remains a risk that individual assets might be inappropriately valued.
The risk reduced slightly in the current year as a result of the change in the accounting policy in respect of subsequent measurement of office buildings and service centres from the revaluation model to the cost model.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report page 92 : Accounting policies pages 149,150, 157 and 158 : and Notes 3, 12 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation to the accounting for one-off and complex transactions including business combinations.
In the current year, there were no such transactions comparable by size, significance or complexity to those occurring in the prior year, and, accordingly, we have not included this risk above as it was no longer a risk that had a significant effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT TAILORING THE SCOPE Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit findings when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 30 reporting components of the Group, we selected six components covering entities within the UK and Georgia, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 121 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Of the six components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of five components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining one component specific scope component, we performed audit procedures on specific account balances within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 98% 2016: 95% of the Groups Profit before non-recurring items and tax, 91% 2016: 91% of the Groups Revenue and 96% 2016: 95% of the Groups Total assets.
The table below illustrates the coverage obtained from the work we performed: 2017 2016 4 4 No.
Revenue Profit Total Assets No.
We audited the complete financial information.
We audited specific account balances within these components.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the components but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
We performed other procedures, including analytical review and testing of consolidation journal entries and intercompany eliminations to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
Profit before non-recurring items and tax.
The components for which we performed full or specific scope procedures are set out below: Component Scope Location team BGEO Group PLC Full London primary team JSC Bank of Georgia Full Georgia primary team Georgia Healthcare Group PLC consolidated Full London and Georgia component team Georgian Global Utilities Limited Full Georgia component team JSC BGEO Group Full Georgia primary team 2 JSC m Real Estate Specific Georgia component team CHANGES FROM THE PRIOR YEAR For the year ended 31 December 2017, we changed the scope for Georgian Global Utilities limited and JSC BGEO Group from specific scope to full scope because of the increase in the size and risk characteristics of these components.
INVOLVEMENT WITH COMPONENT TEAMS In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the five full scope components, audit procedures were performed on three of these directly by the primary audit team.
For the specific scope component where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to make sure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits the principal components of the Group.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is based in the UK, but since Group management and operations reside in Georgia, the Group audit team operates as an integrated primary team including members from the UK, Georgia, Russia and the CIS.
The Senior Statutory Auditor visited Georgia five times during the current years audit and there was regular interaction between team members in each jurisdiction.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the Senior Statutory Auditor and other members of the primary audit team to the components in Georgia.
These visits involved discussing the audit approach with the component teams and any issues arising from their work, as well as meeting with local management.
In addition, the primary team participated in planning and closing meetings and reviewed selected audit working papers.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
122 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC MATERIALITY The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be GEL 25 million 2016: GEL 20 million, which is approximately 5% 2016: 5% of profit before tax and non-recurring items.
We consider that this adjusted profit figure best represents the results of the underlying operations of the Group and as such provides us with an appropriate basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Profit before tax: GEL 482.0m continuing operations: Starting basis GEL 435.8m, discounted operations: GEL 46.2m Non-recurring items: GEL 9.7m continuing operations Adjustments GEL 4.9m, discounted operations: GEL 4.8m Totals GEL 491.8m materiality basis Materiality Materiality of GEL 25.0m approx.
5% of materiality basis We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be GEL 20 million 2016: GEL 20 million, which is approximately 2% 2016: 2% of equity.
We consider that, in respect of the Parent Company, equity is most relevant to the stakeholders and is best representative of the economic size of the entity and as such provides us with an appropriate basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
Starting basis Equity: GEL 988.3m Adjustments No adjustments Materiality Materiality of GEL 20.0m approx.
2% of materiality basis PERFORMANCE MATERIALITY The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that performance materiality was 50% 2016: 50% of our planning materiality, namely GEL 12.5 million 2016: GEL 10.0 million.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the performance materiality allocated to components was as follows: BGEO Group PLC GEL 10.0m JSC BGEO Group GEL 10.0m JSC Bank of Georgia GEL 10.0m Georgia Healthcare Group PLC GEL 3.75m Georgian Global Utilities Ltd GEL 3.125m 2 JSC m Real Estate GEL 2.5m REPORTING THRESHOLD An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of GEL 1.25 million 2016: GEL 1 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 123 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon, including the following sections of the annual report: Strategic Report set out on pages 2 to 75 Governance section, including Directors Governance Overview, Board of Directors, Executive Management, Corporate Governance Framework, Nomination Committee Report, Audit Committee Report, Risk Committee Report, Shareholder engagement, Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Directors Remuneration Policy, Annual Report on Remuneration, Statement of Directors Responsibilities and Directors Report, set out on pages 76 to 117 Additional information, including Abbreviations, Glossary and Shareholder information, set out on pages 213 to 216.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 114 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting set out on pages 91 to 94 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 76 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 114, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
124 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC EXPLANATION AS TO WHAT EXTENT THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD The objectives of our audit: in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management: and in respect to irregularities, considered to be non-compliance with laws and regulations, are: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding compliance with the provisions of those laws and regulations generally recognised to have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements direct laws and regulations, and perform other audit procedures to help identify instances of non-compliance with other laws and regulations that may have a material effect on the financial statements.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance with laws and regulations and our audit procedures cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained a general understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the company and determined that the relevant laws and regulations related to elements of company law and tax legislation, and the financial reporting framework.
Our considerations of other laws and regulations that may have a material effect on the financial statements included permissions and supervisory requirements of the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the UK Listing Authority UKLA, and the various Georgian legal and regulatory requirements applying to the components of the Group, of which the most material are the regulations of the National Bank of Georgia relating to the Banking Business, water regulations and healthcare regulations.
We obtained a general understanding of how the Group complies with these legal and regulatory frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, and those responsible for legal and compliance matters.
We also reviewed correspondence between the Group and its regulators: reviewed minutes of the Board and Executive Risk Committee, and gained an understanding of the Groups approach to governance, demonstrated by the Boards approval of the Groups governance framework, and the Boards review of the Groups risk management framework RMF and internal control processes.
For direct laws and regulations, we considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
For both direct and other laws and regulations, our procedures involved: making enquiry of those charged with governance and senior management for their awareness of any non-compliance of laws or regulations, inquiring about the policies that have been established to prevent non-compliance with laws and regulations by officers and employees, inquiring about the companys methods of enforcing and monitoring compliance with such policies, inspecting significant correspondence with the regulators.
We instructed component teams to communicate to the primary team any identified instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations.
There were no such instances identified and communicated by and to components.
The Group operates across various industries some of which, including banking, insurance, public utilities and healthcare, are highly regulated environments.
As such, the Senior Statutory Auditor considered the experience and expertise of the engagement team to ensure that the team had the appropriate competence and capabilities which included the use of specialists where appropriate.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by considering the controls that the Group has established to address risks identified by the entity, or that otherwise seek to prevent, deter or detect fraud.
We also considered areas of significant judgment, complex transactions, performance targets, economic or external pressures and the impact these have on the control environment.
Where this risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk which included management, internal audit and legal enquiries, testing of internal control, journal entry testing, analytical procedures, tests of detail and focused testing as referred to in the Key Audit Matters section above.
These procedures were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
OTHER MATTERS WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO ADDRESS Following the tender process and the subsequent recommendation of the Audit Committee to the Board, we were appointed by the Board on 16 April 2012 to audit the financial statements for the first accounting period ending 31 December 2012 and subsequent financial periods.
We were re-appointed by shareholders at the Companys 2013 Annual General Meeting and at each subsequent Annual General Meeting.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is six years, covering the first financial period ending 31 December 2012 and subsequent annual periods ending 31 December 2013 to 31 December 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent Company in conducting our audit.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee.
John Headley Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 7 March 2018 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the BGEO Group PLCs website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 125 Additional Financial Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Statements Performance Strategy Overview
