Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report To the members of BBA Aviation plc Independent Auditors Report The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Report on the audit of the financial statements Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European In our opinion: Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework profit for the year then ended: United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Basis for opinion with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK European Union: ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice section of our report.
including Financial Reporting Standard FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services We have audited the financial statements of BBA Aviation plc the Parent Company prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group and the and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: Parent Company.
the Consolidated Income Statement: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: provide a basis for our opinion.
the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Accounting Policies of the Group and Parent Company: the related Group notes 1 to 26: and the related Parent Company notes 1 to 14.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Signature Flight Support SFS goodwill impairment Revenue recognition: Percentage of completion accounting Carrying value of Aftermarket Services inventory Presentation of earnings Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was $12.0 million which was calculated by reference to both profit before tax and underlying profit before tax.
Scoping Following the sale of the ASIG business in February 2017 and further integration of the Landmark business, our audit scope for 2017 decreased from 13 to 10 operating locations.
Senior members of the group audit team continued to visit key locations where our group audit scope was focused.
Significant changes in our approach In the current year, acquisition accounting has been removed as a key audit matter as there have been no significant acquisitions.
In addition, following a reassessment of risks that are most significant to our audit, the key audit matter on goodwill impairment is focused on the SFS goodwill because the balance represents over 25% of total assets of the Group and the forecasted cash flows are subject to managements estimate of the long-term performance of the business.
89 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material to report, We have reviewed the directors statement on page 85 to the financial statements about whether they add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the We confirm that we have nothing material to report, knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
the directors assessment of the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on page 23 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 85 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 85 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
SFS goodwill impairment Key audit matter description Goodwill within the SFS cash generating unit amounted to $1,058.3 million 2016: $1,048.7 million, representing 26% 2016: 24% of the total assets of the Group.
As stated within the accounting policies to the Groups financial statements on page 100, goodwill is subject to an annual impairment review using a value in use basis.
The value in use calculation is based on long-term cash flows of the business which are subject to managements estimate of the long-term performance of the business and risk adjusted discount rates, as stated within the notes to the accounts on page 107.
We have therefore included goodwill impairment for the SFS cash generating unit as a key audit matter.
How the scope of our audit responded to the Our audit procedures included challenging the key assumptions used in managements impairment model, including the key audit matter forecast future cash flows, growth rates applied in the medium and long term and the risk adjusted discount rates.
In performing our audit procedures we reviewed historical financial performance of the business units compared with the original forecasts to evaluate the accuracy of managements budgeting process.
Furthermore, we assessed the appropriateness of the forecast cash flows and long-term growth rates with reference to external macro-economic and market outlook data.
To assess the discount rate applied we used internal valuation specialists to perform benchmarking against independent data.
In addition to the above, we have also reviewed the related presentation and disclosures in the financial statements.
Key observations We concur with the directors assessment that there is no impairment charge required.
We also consider the disclosures within the Consolidated Financial Statements to be appropriate.
90 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Revenue recognition: Percentage of completion accounting Key audit matter description As stated within the accounting policies to the Groups financial statements on page 102, revenue recognised in the Engine Repair & Overhaul businesses of $518.8 million 2016: $541.4 million requires management judgement to estimate the stage of completion and profitability of contracts, to determine the amount of revenue and profit to be recorded for engine overhauls in progress at the year end.
Given the management estimates involved in determining the key assumptions, we have identified this as a potential fraud risk area.
How the scope of our audit responded In performing our audit procedures we assessed the estimates applied within the percentage of completion calculation by to the key audit matter verifying the engine overhaul costs incurred for work undertaken at the year end and challenging the estimated costs to completion.
In assessing the estimated costs to completion, we considered the historical accuracy of managements forecasts in previous years for the cost of engine overhauls and made enquiries of technical staff responsible for the engine overhaul process.
Key observations Based on the results of each of the procedures as set out above, we consider the related financial statement amounts to be appropriate and in line with the Groups accounting policies as set out on page 102.
Carrying value of Aftermarket Services inventory Key audit matter description As detailed within the significant financial reporting issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee on page 53, management judgement is required to establish that the carrying value of inventory across the Aftermarket Services businesses of $220.0 million 2016: $215.8 million is appropriate, in particular in relation to determining the appropriate level of inventory provisioning against surplus and obsolete items.
The judgement reflects the nature of the Groups Aftermarket Services operations which means that inventory must be held to support aircraft engine overhaul cycles, resulting in inventory which can be held for extended periods of time before utilisation.
How the scope of our audit responded Our audit procedures included testing of the inventory provisions held in the Aftermarket Services businesses by understanding to the key audit matter and challenging the key assumptions used to determine the appropriate carrying value of inventories.
Specifically, we assessed whether: managements controls relating to the estimation of the inventory provisions are appropriately designed and implemented: the estimates of remaining lives and usage profiles of the engine and aircraft platforms are consistent with industry projections and supported by industry experts: and where the expected future usage of inventory is based on past experience, this has been reasonably estimated.
Furthermore we assessed the mathematical accuracy of the provisioning calculation by performing a recalculation of the expected provision based on the above key assumptions.
Key observations Evidence obtained during the audit shows that the level of inventory provisions is appropriate and consistent with our understanding of the business.
Presentation of earnings Key audit matter description Management presents the Consolidated Income Statement in a columnar format, separately disclosing the underlying results and exceptional and other items.
Total exceptional and other items contributed to a charge of $127.0 million 2016: charge of $316.0 million.
In addition, following the sale of the ASIG business in February 2017, management has presented the results of the business as a discontinued operation, consistent with the presentation shown for the year ending 31 December 2016.
As detailed within note 2 to the Groups financial statements, management has defined exceptional and other items as items which are material and non-recurring in nature and also include costs relating to acquisitions and disposals and amortisation of acquired intangibles and valued in accordance with IFRS 3.
Management judgement is required in relation to the identification, measurement and disclosure of exceptional and other items to ensure clarity in the presentation of the Groups financial performance.
This key audit matter was discussed in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 53.
91 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report How the scope of our audit responded We have challenged the assumptions made to identify and measure those items classified as exceptional and other items.
to the key audit matter Our audit work has included: obtaining supporting documentation, such as invoices, legal correspondence and severance contracts, for the measurement of such costs included within exceptional and other items: understanding and challenging managements rationale for the inclusion of such costs as exceptional and other items.
This has included assessing whether managements approach to identifying exceptional and other items is consistent with the prior year: assessing the adequacy of disclosure in relation to the exceptional and other items: and understanding and challenging managements rationale for those items included in the underlying results which may be considered non-recurring in nature.
We have also considered the use of alternative performance measures disclosed in the Annual Report given previous guidance issued by the FRC and European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA.
Key observations Evidence obtained during the audit shows that the presentation of earnings is appropriate and consistent with the Groups policy in this area.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality $12.0 million 2016: $10.0 million $6.0 million 2016: $5.0 million Basis for determining materiality Materiality was determined by reference to both profit before Materiality represents less than 1% 2016: less than 1% tax and underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for the benchmark applied Profit before tax and underlying profit before tax are As this is the parent company of the Group it does not considered to be key performance metrics of the business.
generate significant revenue but instead incurs costs and as Materiality of $12.0 million represents approximately 7% of such the net assets of the Parent Company are considered Profit before Tax and 4% of Underlying Profit before Tax.
We have agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report all audit differences in excess of $600,000 2016: $500,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment: We focused our group audit scope on 10 2016: 13 operating locations representing a decrease of three operating locations audited in the current year.
The decrease arises from the disposal of the ASIG business and integration of the Landmark business.
Five 2016: five of these locations were subsidiaries subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 31 December 2017 in accordance with statutory reporting requirements in the UK and Europe.
Four 2016: three were subject to specific audit procedures, focused on the significant audit risk areas.
This increase on prior year due to Dallas Airmotive being subject to specific audit procedures in the current year.
The remaining operating location 2016: five locations relates to the SFS US business for which a full scope audit was completed.
These 10 2016: 13 locations represent the principal operating locations of the Group and account for approximately 96% 2016: 96% of revenue and 93% 2016: 93% of the Groups total assets.
92 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Audits of these locations are performed at materiality levels determined by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
Materiality for each location was set no higher than 70% 2016: 60% of Group materiality.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member of the group audit team visits each of the locations where the group audit scope was focused.
Visits were made to 7 of the 10 operating locations during the year 2016: 10 out of 13.
The visits will enable the group audit team to update their understanding of the operations, risks and control environments of each component.
The visits will also be used to review audit working papers and attend key meetings with local management.
For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the group audit team discusses audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviews relevant audit working papers.
The Parent Company is located in the United Kingdom and audited directly by the group audit team.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
information included in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
93 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Groups members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Groups members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Group and the Groups members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect Directors remuneration of these matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, we were appointed by the Board in 2002 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2002 and subsequent financial periods.
Following a competitive tender process, we were appointed as auditor for the period ending 31 December 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 15 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2002 to 31 December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Edward Hanson Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 28 February 2018 94
