STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement Opinion We have nothing to report in respect of the In our opinion: following information in the annual report, Dominos Pizza Group plcs group financial statements and parent company in relation to which the ISAs UK require us financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the to report to you whether we have anything state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 material to add or draw attention to: andof the groups profit for the year then ended: the disclosures in the annual report set the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with out on pages 22 to 26 that describe the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice including FRS 101: and the directors confirmation set out on page 22 in the annual report that they the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements have carried out a robust assessment of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, ofthe principal risks facing the entity, Article4 of the IAS Regulation.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, We have audited the financial statements of Dominos Pizza Group plc which comprise: solvency or liquidity: Group Parent company the directors statement set out on pages Consolidated balance sheet as at Balance sheet as at 31 December 2017 67 and 68 in the financial statements 31December 2017 about whether they considered it Consolidated income statement for the appropriate to adopt the going concern 53week period then ended basis of accounting in preparing them, Consolidated statement of comprehensive and theiridentification of any material income for the 53 week period then ended uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at Consolidated statement of changes in Statement of changes in equity for the least twelve months from the date of equityfor the 53 week period then ended 53 week period then ended approval of the financial statements: Consolidated statement of cash flows for the 53 week period then ended whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under Related notes 1 to 37 to the financial Related notes C1 to C12 to the financial the Listing Rules in accordance with statements, including a summary of statements including a summary of Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially significant accounting policies significant accounting policies inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the directors explanation set out on the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as pages 27 and 68 in the annual report as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period Basis for opinion Use of our report to be appropriate, and their statement as We conducted our audit in accordance This report is made solely to the companys to whether they have a reasonable with International Standards on Auditing members, as a body, in accordance with expectation that the entity will be able to UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act continue in operation and meet its responsibilities under those standards 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken liabilities as they fall due over the period arefurther described in the Auditors so that we might state to the companys of their assessment, including any related responsibilities for the audit of the financial members those matters we are required to disclosures drawing attention to any statements section of our report below.
We state to them in an auditors report and for necessary qualifications or assumptions.
are independent of the group and parent no other purpose.
To the fullest extent company in accordance with the ethical permitted by law, we do not accept or requirements that are relevant to our audit assume responsibility to anyone other than of the financial statements in the UK, including the company and the companys members the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to as a body, for our audit work, for this report, listed public interest entities, and we have or for the opinions we have formed.
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Reversionary interest share-based compensation scheme taxation Susceptibility to management override in recharging expenditure incurred by the group to the National Advertising Fund Susceptibility to management override in the recognition of revenue through manual journals Appropriate classification and disclosure of non-underlying items Impairment of acquired goodwill and intangible assets Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of 5 components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 6 components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 100% of Profit before non-underlying items and taxation from continuing operations, 98% of Revenue and 97% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall group materiality of 4.8m which represents 5% of profit before non-underlying items and taxation from continuing operations.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated Risk Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee movement We have inspected a sample of the compensation contracts We concur with managements Reversionary interest share-based to gain an understanding of the commercial purpose of conclusion that the recent compensation scheme taxation theawards.
legal advice provides a basis Refer to the Directors Remuneration Report upon which a reasonable page 59, Directors Report page 67, Audit We examined historic correspondence between HMRC and estimate of the probable Committee Report page 43 : Accounting the Group to understand the latest views of HMRC on liability to HMRC can policies page 82 : and Note 27 and 37 of the managements tax treatment of theawards.
Consolidated Financial Statements page 113 We have involved our remuneration tax specialists to and 124, respectively.
We consider the disclosures support us in corroborating the advice provided to the in respect of key judgements, Certain of the Groups historic share-based Group by the Groups legal and tax advisers with regard to directors remuneration, related compensation arrangements dating from 2003 the effectiveness of the design and implementation of the party transactions and to 2010 involved the use of employee benefit schemes.
We corroborated our understanding of the advice provisions proposed by trusts which provided award recipients with given to the Group by reading the report they issued to management to be reversionary interests in the form of share Group management, requesting a legal letter and inspecting inaccordance with appreciation rights.
Significant judgement the source documentation provided to the advisers to therelevant accounting isrequired to determine the treatment of such corroborate that it was an appropriate basis upon which standards and company law.
compensation from an employment toprovide their legal advice.
We re-performed the calculation of the estimated There is a risk that if HMRC were to reach a employment tax payable, corroborated the source data used in different judgement on the employment tax the calculation to the protective assessments issued by HMRC treatment of the compensation arrangements, and performed an independent assessment of the interest this may give rise to material adverse income payable.
We compared the basis upon which the tax provision statement and orcash flow variances.
has been calculated to equivalent case law to assess the appropriateness of managements judgement.
During 2017, the Group updated its legal advice following recent decisions by the Supreme We have inspected professional advice in respect of the Court concerning the taxation of historic effectiveness of indemnity arrangements provided to the remuneration structures.
This advice was Group from award recipients to understand whether the received in January 2018. asset recognition criteria had been met.
A provision of 11m has been recorded in the We have compared the disclosures made by management in year based upon managements estimate of the thefinancial statements, with the requirements of IFRS and gross tax that may become payable to HMRC.
Company Law, specifically including IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and The Chairman and certain other former Contingent Assets, Companies Act 2006 and the Listing directors and employees were award Rule requirements.
They have provided indemnities to the group in respect of future employment tax payable by the group on their awards.
No asset has been recognised in respect of amounts recoverable under these indemnities as the recoverability of such amounts is not yet virtually certain.
70 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matters continued Key observations communicated Risk Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee movement We performed testing to confirm that costs charged to the fund We identified no material National Advertising Fund expenditure are permitted costs under the fund rules by selecting a sample expenses which had been Refer to the Accounting policies page 87 : and of expenses and corroborating to supporting documentation.
inappropriately charged Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial against the NAF.
Statements page 104 We identified manual journals posted to the NAF fund and, where significant, understood the rationale for the journal entry Franchisees pay contributions which are and agreed the journals to relevant supporting documentation.
collected by the Group for specific use within the National Advertising Fund NAF.
The fund We performed a proof in total of credits to the NAF based is operated by the Group on behalf of franchisees upon a fixed percentage of system sales.
System sales were with the objective of driving revenues for their substantively tested by selecting a sample of items to test to stores.
Total contributions made to the NAF for supporting documentation.
the 53week period amounted to 46.8m 2016: 41.5m and the NAF balance at 31December 2017 was a receivable of 3.9m 2016: 1.9m creditor.
The NAF is governed by a framework.
Thedescription of activities to be expensed against the fund is such that judgement is required to determine the appropriateness of the nature and extent of costs to be recharged from the Group to the fund.
Therecharging of expenditure incurred bythe Group on behalf of the NAF is susceptible to management override through inappropriate expenditure being charged to the National Advertising Fund NAF.
We performed detailed testing over revenue recognition Revenue was recognised in Revenue recognition asfollows: accordance with the Groups Refer to the Accounting policies page 89 : and accounting policies and we Note 3 Revenue of the Consolidated Financial For 3 of the full scope components representing 85% of identified no evidence of Statements page 91. applicable group revenues, we used data analysis tools management override in toanalyse all of the revenue transactions for the royalties, Total Group revenue is 474.6m 2016: 360.6m.
respect of inappropriate manual franchise fees and sales to franchisees excluding rebates The Groups significant revenue streams journals recorded in revenue.
We tested the correlation of revenue to cash include royalties, corporate store sales, receiptsto verify the occurrence of revenue.
For those full salestofranchisees and rental income.
orspecific-scope components where we did not use data We continue to assess revenue recognition analysis tools, we performed alternative substantive asan area of audit risk which has a significant procedures over revenue recognition, including tracing effect on our audit strategy and our allocation fromorigination of revenue through to the general ledger ofresources.
toensure that the revenue was appropriately recorded in thecorrect period and at the correct value.
There is a risk of misstatement of revenue arising from the susceptibility to management In addition, we performed analytical procedures using the override through recording of inappropriate inter-relationship of system sales, royalty income and sales manual journals.
to franchisees to analyse movements in revenue year on year.
In the execution of our journal entry testing, we performed testing over manual journal entries recorded for each revenue stream.
We checked these journals to supporting documentation and validated that the revenue recognition criteria were fulfilled to gain assurance over the occurrence assertion and that the values assigned were correct to provide assurance over the measurement assertion.
We have examined the items classified as non-underlying The income and expenses Non-underlying items tounderstand managements rationale for the separate presented as non-underlying Refer to the Accounting policies page 90 : and presentation and assessed the appropriateness of the items are consistent with the Note 7 Non-underlying items of the Consolidated presentation by reference to the Groups accounting policies groups accounting policy.
Financial Statements page 96. and the FRC guidance in this area.
At the half year, 1.6m of non-underlying We traced the amounts presented as non-underlying items gainswere recorded.
Further gains of 1m to supporting evidence to assess the occurrence and andexpenses of 17.6m were recorded in the measurement of the items was appropriate.
We assessed second half of the year.
whether items classified within underlying operations, The Groups accounting policy is to present metthe definition of non-underlying.
separately, as non-underlying items, income We reviewed the disclosures regarding items classified as and expenses where such disclosure is non-underlying, with a focus on whether they provide an considered useful to the users of the financial understanding of why they are excluded from underlying statements in helping them understand the performance and can be linked to a statutory measure.
Non-underlying items are not defined by IFRS and therefore judgement is required in determining the appropriateness of such classification.
Such judgement may be susceptible to management bias.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc Key audit matters continued Key observations communicated Risk Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee movement We obtained the impairment analyses produced by The cash flow projections Impairment of acquired Goodwill and management and tested the logical and arithmetic accuracy prepared by management Intangible Assets and to ensure that they had been prepared in line with the support the carrying value of Refer to the Accounting policies page 85 : and guidance provided in IAS 36. the acquired goodwill and Note 15 Intangible Assets of the Consolidated intangible assets.
We compared the performance of each acquired business in2017 to managements due diligence and investment A reasonable possible change Following the acquisition of controlling stakes appraisal models produced ahead of the acquisition dates, in a key assumption would not within Iceland, Norway and Sweden and the inorder to identify bias within managements impairment give rise to a material acquisition of a 75% stake in a London franchisee, model assumptions.
impairment adjustment in goodwill of 50.7m and intangible assets of thefinancial statements.
45.5m have been recognised during the year.
We performed procedures to obtain an understanding of theunderlying assumptions made in the forecasts and As the Nordic businesses and Iceland represent corroborated the appropriateness of these assumptions new, less established markets for the group, tosupporting documentation.
judgement is required to establish the cashflow forecasts and impairment model.
The The key assumptions included: acquisition of an existing franchisee increases Discount rates the exposure to corporate store performance forecasting.
These judgements are susceptible Medium-term growth rates to management bias and execution risk.
In respect of the discount rates, an independent assessment was made based on general marketindicators.
We tested the reasonableness of medium-term growth rates by examining for consistency against the strategic and operational plans designed and implemented by management.
We performed sensitivity analysis over the key assumptions within the impairment models.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation to distributions made other that in compliance with the Companies Act.
As a result of the EGM in January 2017 and steps taken by the directors to ensure that sufficient distributable reserves are available prior to a distribution, we do not consider this to be a key audit matter in the current year.
In the prior year, our auditors report also included a key audit matter in relation to the risk of impairment of the intangible and PPE related to the business in Switzerland.
We have reassessed this risk and based on operational and strategic actions taken by management, recent trading performance, headroom please see note 15 and our current audit work, we no longer consider it an area of significant risk.
No additional Key Audit Matters have been identified for the Parent Company audit.
72 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Of the remaining five components that An overview of the scope of The charts below illustrate the together represent 0% of the Groups Profit ouraudit coverage obtained from the work before non-underlying items and taxation Tailoring the scope performed by the primary audit team from continuing operations, none are Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation and component audit teams.
individually greater than 5% of the Groups of materiality and our allocation of Profit before non-underlying items and performance materiality determine our PROFIT BEFORE NON-UNDERLYING taxation from continuing operations.
For audit scope for each entity within the ITEMS AND TAXATION FROM these components, we performed other Group.
Taken together, this enables us to CONTINUING OPERATIONS procedures, including analytical review, form an opinion on the consolidated testing of consolidation journals, intercompany financial statements.
We take into account eliminations and foreign currency translation size, risk profile, the organisation of the recalculations to respond to potential risks group and effectiveness of group-wide of material misstatement to the Group controls, changes in the business financial statements.
environment and other factors such as FULL SCOPE COMPONENTS 99% when assessing the level of work to be Changes from the prior year SPECIFIC SCOPE COMPONENTS 1% performed at each entity.
As a result of the acquisitions made during OTHER PROCEDURES 0% the period, we have designated two of In assessing the risk of material misstatement these locations as specific scope and two REVENUE to the Group financial statements, and to of these locations as review scope.
The ensure we had adequate quantitative procedures in relation to the acquisition coverage of significant accounts in the accounting were performed by our primary financial statements, of the sixteen audit team.
reporting components of the Group, we selected eleven components covering Involvement with component teams entities within UK, Ireland, Switzerland, In establishing our overall approach to the FULL SCOPE COMPONENTS 85% Iceland and Norway, which represent the Group audit, we determined the type of SPECIFIC SCOPE COMPONENTS 13% principal business units within the Group.
OTHER PROCEDURES 2% work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components audited by us, as the Of the eleven components selected, the TOTAL ASSETS primary audit team, or by non-EY component primary audit team performed an audit of auditors operating under our instruction.
the complete financial information of five Of the five full scope components, audit components full scope components procedures were performed on five of which were selected based on their size or these directly by the primary audit team.
For the remaining six For the six specific scope components, components specific scope components, where the work was performed by we performed audit procedures on specific FULL SCOPE COMPONENTS 84% component auditors, we determined the accounts within that component that we SPECIFIC SCOPE COMPONENTS 13% appropriate level of involvement to enable OTHER PROCEDURES 3% considered had the potential for the greatest us to determine that sufficient audit impact on the significant accounts in the evidence had been obtained as a basis for financial statements either because of the our opinion on the Group as a whole.
size of these accounts or their risk profile.
Of the six specific scope components, five The primary team interacted regularly with were performed by the primary team and the component teams where appropriate one by a non-EY component auditor.
during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible The audit scope of the specific scope for the scope and direction of the audit components did not include the testing of process.
This, together with the additional all significant accounts of the component procedures performed at Group level, gave but will have contributed to the coverage us appropriate evidence for our opinion on of significant accounts tested for the Group.
For an investment in associate, we instructed non-EY component auditors to perform specified procedures and determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to confirm that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
In the current year, one of the six specific scope components was an overseas non-EY component team that we instructed to perform specific scope audit procedures.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc Audit work at component locations for the In connection with our audit of the financial Our application of materiality purpose of obtaining audit coverage over statements, our responsibility is to read the We apply the concept of materiality in significant financial statement accounts is other information and, in doing so, consider planning and performing the audit, in undertaken based on a percentage of total whether the other information is materially evaluating the effect of identified performance materiality.
The performance inconsistent with the financial statements misstatements on the audit and in forming materiality set for each component is based or our knowledge obtained in the audit or our audit opinion.
on the relative scale and risk of the component otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Materiality to the Group as a whole and our assessment If we identify such material inconsistencies The magnitude of an omission or misstatement of the risk of misstatement at that component.
or apparent material misstatements, we are that, individually or in the aggregate, could In the current year, the range of performance required to determine whether there is a reasonably be expected to influence the materiality allocated to components was material misstatement in the financial economic decisions of the users of the 0.4m to 2.4m 2016:0.4m to 2m.
statements or a material misstatement of financial statements.
Materiality provides a the other information.
If, based on the work Reporting threshold basis for determining the nature and extent we have performed, we conclude that An amount below which identified of our audit procedures.
there is a material misstatement of the misstatements are considered as being other information, we are required to We determined materiality for the Group to clearly trivial.
be 4.8 million 2016: 4 million, which is We agreed with the Audit Committee that 5% 2016: 5% of profit before non-underlying We have nothing to report in this regard.
we would report to them all uncorrected audit items and taxation from continuing operations.
differences in excess of 0.2m 2016: 0.2m, In this context, we also have nothing to We believe that profit before non-underlying which is set at 5% of planning materiality, report in regard to our responsibility to items and taxation from continuing operations as well as differences below that threshold specifically address the following items in is the most relevant measure of the underlying that, in our view, warranted reporting on the other information and to report as financial performance of the group.
uncorrected material misstatements of the We determined materiality for the Parent other information where we conclude that We evaluate any uncorrected Company to be 4.8 million 2016: 4 million, those items meet the following conditions: misstatements against both the which is consistent with our Group materiality.
quantitative measures of materiality Fair, balanced and understandable set Performance materiality discussed above and in light of other out on page 68 the statement given by The application of materiality at the individual relevant qualitative considerations in the directors that they consider the account or balance level.
It is set at an forming our opinion.
annual report and financial statements amount to reduce to an appropriately low taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Other information level the probability that the aggregate of understandable and provides the The other information comprises the uncorrected and undetected misstatements information necessary for shareholders information included in the annual report exceeds materiality.
to assess the groups performance, set out on pages 1 to 68, other than the business model and strategy, is On the basis of our risk assessments, together financial statements and our auditors report materially inconsistent with our with our assessment of the Groups overall thereon.
The directors are responsible for knowledge obtained in the audit: or control environment, our judgement was the otherinformation.
that performance materiality was 50% Audit committee reporting set out on Our opinion on the financial statements 2016: 50% of our planning materiality, pages 43 to 45 the section describing does not cover the other information and, namely 2.4m 2016: 2m.
We have the work of the audit committee does except to the extent otherwise explicitly maintained performance materiality at notappropriately address matters stated in this report, we do not express any thispercentage reflecting the results of communicated by us to the audit form of assurance conclusion thereon.
ourtesting of the Groups systems and committee: or processes and historical audit findings.
Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 36 the parts of the directors statement required under the Profit before taxation from continuing operations 81.2m Listing Rules relating to the companys Starting compliance with the UK Corporate basis Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure Non-underlying items before tax 15.0m from a relevant provision of the UK Adjustments Corporate Governance Code.
Totals 96.2m materiality basis profit before non-underlying items and taxation from continuing operations Materiality Materiality of 4.8m 5% of materiality basis 74 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our approach was as follows: Opinions on other matters Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors prescribed by the Companies We obtained an understanding of the responsibilities statement set out on page Act2006 legal and regulatory frameworks that are 68, the directors are responsible for the In our opinion, the part of the directors applicable to the group and determined preparation of the financial statements and remuneration report to be audited has been that the most significant frameworks for being satisfied that they give a true and properly prepared in accordance with the which are directly relevant to specific fair view, and for such internal control as Companies Act 2006. assertions in the financial statements are the directors determine is necessary to those that relate to the reporting framework enable the preparation of financial statements In our opinion, based on the work IFRS, FRS 101, the Companies Act 2006 that are free from material misstatement, undertaken in the course of the audit: and the UK Corporate Governance Code whether due to fraud or error.
and the relevant tax compliance regulations the information given in the strategic in the jurisdictions in which the group In preparing the financial statements, the report and the directors report for the operates.
In addition, we concluded that directors are responsible for assessing the financial year for which the financial there are certain significant laws and group and parent companys ability to statements are prepared is consistent regulations which may have an effect continue as a going concern, disclosing, as with the financial statements: and onthe determination of the amounts and applicable, matters related to going concern the strategic report and the directors disclosures in the financial statements and using the going concern basis of report have been prepared in accordance being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing accounting unless the directors either with applicable legal requirements.
Authority, and those regulations relating intend to liquidate the group or the parent to health and safety and employee matters.
company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Matters on which we are required We understood how the Group is to report by exception complying with those frameworks by Auditors responsibilities for the audit of In the light of the knowledge and making enquiries of management, the the financial statements understanding of the group and the parent company secretary, the head of legal and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable company and its environment obtained in those responsible for legal and compliance assurance about whether the financial the course of the audit, we have not procedures.
We corroborated our enquiries statements as a whole are free from material identified material misstatements in the through our review of board minutes, misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, strategic report or the directors report.
papers provided to the Audit Committee, and to issue an auditors report that includes discussion with the Audit Committee and our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high We have nothing to report in respect of the any correspondence received from level of assurance, but is not a guarantee following matters in relation to which the regulatory bodies.
that an audit conducted in accordance with Companies Act 2006 requires us to report ISAs UK will always detect a material to you if, in our opinion: We assessed the susceptibility of the misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements groups financial statements to material adequate accounting records have not can arise from fraud or error and are misstatement, including how fraud might been kept by the parent company, or considered material if, individually or in occur by reviewing the Groups risk register, returns adequate for our audit have not theaggregate, they could reasonably be enquiry with management and the Audit been received from branches not visited expected to influence the economic Committee during the planning and by us: or decisions of users taken on the basis of execution phases of our audit.
We also these financial statements.
considered performance targets and the parent company financial statements their influence on efforts made by Explanation as to what extent the audit and the part of the Directors Remuneration management to manage earnings or was considered capable of detecting Report to be audited are not in agreement influence the perceptions of analysts.
irregularities, including fraud with the accounting records and returns: or We considered the programs and The objectives of our audit, in respect to certain disclosures of directors controls that the group has established fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks remuneration specified by law are to address risks identified, or that of material misstatement of the financial notmade: or otherwise prevent, deter and detect statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient fraud and how senior management appropriate audit evidence regarding the we have not received all the information monitors those programs and controls.
assessed risks of material misstatement and explanations we require for our audit.
Where the risk was considered to be due to fraud, through designing and higher, we performed audit procedures implementing appropriate responses: and to address each identified fraud risk.
to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected These procedures included testing fraud identified during the audit.
However, manual journals and were designed to the primary responsibility for the prevention provide reasonable assurance that the and detection of fraud rests with both financial statements were free from those charged with governance of the fraud or error.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc The non-audit services prohibited by the Responsibilities of directors FRCs Ethical Standard were not continued provided to the group or the parent Explanation as to what extent the audit company and we remain independent of was considered capable of detecting the group and the parent company in irregularities, including fraud continued conducting the audit.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify The audit opinion is consistent with the non-compliance with such laws and additional report to the audit committee.
Our procedures involved journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual Christopher Voogd transactions based on our understanding Senior statutory auditor of the business: enquiries of the for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, company secretary, head of legal, Statutory Auditor management: and focused testing, as Birmingham referred to in the key audit matters 7 March 2018 section above.
In addition, we completed Notes: procedures to conclude on the compliance 1 The maintenance and integrity of the of the disclosures in the Annual Report DominosPizza Group plc website is the and Accounts with the requirements of responsibility of the directors: the work the relevant accounting standards, UK carried out by the auditors does not involve legislation and the UK Corporate consideration of these matters and, accordingly, Governance Code 2016. the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial A further description of our responsibilities statements since they were initially presented for the audit of the financial statements is on the website.
located on the Financial Reporting Councils 2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing website at https: www.
uk the preparation and dissemination of financial .
This description statements may differ from legislation in forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 20 April 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 19 years, covering the years ending 26 December 1999 to 31December 2017.
76 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017
