Financial Statements Independent auditors report @ to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. only 1 Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Additional opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note to the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the Directors on 23 March 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 3 financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Litigation and contingent liabilities Refer to page 66 Audit Committee report, page 116 accounting policy and pages 172 to 188 financial disclosures The risk: Dispute Outcome: The Group is subject to a large volume of claims including class actions, which could have a significant impact on the results if the potential exposures were to materialise.
For our 2017 audit we believe the most significant risk relates to ongoing smoking and health litigation brought against the operating company by the province of Quebec, Canada, which is disclosed in note 28 contingent liabilities and financial commitments.
This assessment is consistent with our 2016 audit.
The amounts involved are significant, and the application of accounting standards to determine the amount, if any, to be provided as a liability or disclosed as a contingent liability, is inherently subjective.
This includes assumptions relating to the likelihood and or timing of cash outflows from the business and the interpretation of preliminary and pending court rulings.
Our procedures included: Control design: Evaluating the processes and controls over litigations operated by Management at Group, regional and local level through regular meetings with in-house legal counsels and review of Board and sub-committee meeting minutes: Enquiry of lawyers: Assessing correspondence with the Groups external counsel accompanied by formal confirmations from that external counsel and discussions with and representations from in-house counsel: Our legal expertise: Use of KPMG legal specialists, by the Canadian component audit team, to assess relevant historical and recent judgments passed by the judicial court authorities, as well as the formal confirmations of current status from external counsel, in order to challenge the basis used for the accounting treatment and resulting disclosures: and Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures detailing the Quebec, Canada litigation in note 28 contingent liabilities and financial commitments adequately disclose relevant facts and circumstances and potential liabilities of the Group.
Our findings From the evidence obtained, we found the Groups treatment of the litigation in Canada as a contingent liability and related disclosures to be acceptable.
100 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Purchase Price Allocation valuation of brand intangibles.
New 2017 risk Refer to page 66 Audit Committee report, page 112 and 114 accounting policy and pages 165 and 166 financial disclosures The risk: Subjective valuation: On 25 July 2017, the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining shares it did not previously own of Reynolds American Inc. in the United States.
As a result, the Group recognised total intangible assets of 109,762 million, of which 74,891 million related to brand intangibles.
There is significant judgement with regard to assumptions and estimates involved in the forecasting of future cash flows, which form the basis of the assessment of the valuation of such brand intangibles.
The key assumptions included are forecast volumes and terminal growth rates.
Our procedures included: Control design: Assessing the US operating Companys budgeting process as well as the review and approval procedures upon which the cash flow forecasts are based: Our valuation expertise: Use of our own valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of the valuation methodology applied and challenge in particular the terminal growth rates used based on our sector expertise: Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the Groups assumptions to externally derived publicly available data, in relation to key inputs such as forecast short and long term volume declines in the US and expected sales price growth: and Historical comparisons: Challenging the reasonableness of the assumptions, particularly projected sales volumes by assessing the historical accuracy of the Groups forecasting.
Our findings As a result of our work, we found the resulting estimate of acquired brand intangible assets to be acceptable.
Recoverability of parent Companys investment in subsidiaries.
New 2017 risk Refer to page 211 accounting policy and page 212 financial disclosures The carrying amount of the parent Companys investments in subsidiaries is 27,898 million 2016: 4,446 million which represents 77% 2016: 38% of the Companys total assets.
Their recoverability is not a high risk of significant misstatement or subject to significant judgement.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the parent Company financial statements, this is considered to be the area that had the greatest effect on our overall parent Company audit.
Our procedures included: Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of a sample of the highest value investments, representing 98% 2016: 96% of the total investment balance with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheet to identify whether their net assets, being an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether those subsidiaries have historically been profitmaking: Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the audit work performed over the subsidiaries and considering the results of that work, on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
Our findings: We found the Directors assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
Removal of risk in respect of global taxation exposures We continue to perform procedures over global taxation exposures, specifically over judgements made by the Directors in assessing whether any contingent liability or provision arises from disputes in particular in Brazil, Canada, South Africa and The Netherlands.
However, in the absence of developments in these ongoing cases, we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
Removal of risk in respect of goodwill impairment We continue to monitor, and perform procedures over, the Groups goodwill impairment assessment, and in particular, those specific to Indonesia, TDR Croatia and Colombia and which we identified as a Key Audit Matter in our audit report for the year ended 31 December 2016.
However, given the financial and project performance within the Indonesia and Colombia cash generating units as well as the integration of the operations of the TDR Croatia cash generating unit into the operations of the Western Europe cash generating unit, we no longer assess this as one of the key audit matters that had the greatest effect on our audit and, it is not separately identified in our report this year.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Application of materiality Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 330 million 2016: 245 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation normalised to exclude current year one-off transactions of the 23,270 million gain on divestiture of the investment of Reynolds as a result of the business combination and other costs related to the acquisition of Reynolds of 618 million.
This represents 4.8% 2016: 4.6% of the Groups reported profit before taxation as normalised.
The group team performed procedures on the items excluded from normalised Group profit before tax.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 35 million 2016: 105 million by reference to component materiality.
This is lower than the materiality we would otherwise have determined by reference to company net assets.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 16 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 101 Financial Statements Independent auditors report @ to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. only continued Scope of our audit In establishing the overall audit approach, we considered the centralised nature of the Groups operations, the risk profile of countries where the Group operates, and changes taking place within the business.
We also considered the financial significance of each business unit together with any local statutory audit requirements.
The Group has three centralised shared service centres 2016: three in Malaysia, Costa Rica and Romania, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the reporting components they service and therefore they are not separate reporting components.
Each of the service centres is subject to specified risk-focused audit procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing and review controls.
Additional procedures are performed at certain reporting components to address the audit risks not covered by the work performed over the shared service centres.
The Group operates through a significant number of legal entities, which form components primarily structured across four geographic regions, being the Americas: Asia-Pacific: Western Europe: and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa EEMEA.
To provide sufficient coverage over the Groups significant risks, KPMG component auditors performed audits for Group reporting purposes of 35 end markets and corporate reporting components 2016: 28 components.
One of these components was the Parent Company.
Audits of these components were performed using materiality levels assigned by the Group audit team, which were lower than the materiality level for the Group as a whole, ranging from 1 million to 200 million 2016: 1 million to 163 million, and determined by reference to the size and risk profile of the components.
Audits of one or more account balances were performed in respect of a further 20 components 2016: 13, using a materiality ranging from 1 million to 35 million 2016: 20 million assigned by the Group audit team.
These 20 components were not individually significant enough to require an audit for Group reporting purposes but were included in the scope of our Group reporting work in order to provide further coverage over the Groups revenue and total assets.
This is consistent with the approach that was adopted in 2016.
Specified risk-focused audit procedures have been performed at 5 components 2016: nil using a materiality of 20 million.
In addition specified risk-focused audit procedures have been performed at the corporate level by the engagement team in London in relation to the Group consolidation and associated journal entries and financial statement disclosures.
Additionally, supplemental procedures over and above those reported by component auditors have been performed in relation to a number of complex items including, taxation, pension assets and liabilities, litigation provisions and contingent liabilities, treasury, business combinations, goodwill and intangible asset impairment and earnings per share.
The work on 54 of the 60 components 2016: 39 of the 41 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent Company, was performed by the Group team.
The percentages of the Groups revenue, the total profits and losses that make up the Groups profit before taxation and the Groups total assets represented by the components within the scope of our work and procedures performed at corporate level are as follows: Group revenue Group profit before tax Group total assets 2 2 3 3 9 51 84% 95% 98% 55 5 2016 72% 2016 73% 63 2016 79% 23 5 17 5 75 90 93 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2016 Audit of one or more account balances 2017 Audit of one or more account balances 2016 specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 Residual components specified risk-focused audit procedures 2016 The percentage of the Groups total profits and losses that make up the Groups profit before taxation represented by the components within the scope of our work and procedures performed at the corporate level has increased in 2017 to 95% due principally to the 23,288 million gain on divestiture of Reynolds American Inc. as per note 5.
The remaining 16% 2016: 28% of total Group revenue, 5% 2016: 27% of the total profits and losses that made up the Group profit before tax and 2% 2016: 21% of Group total assets is represented by over 214 reporting components 2016: 230, none of which individually represented more than 1.6% 2016: 1.4% of any of total Group revenue, total profits and losses that made up the Group profit before tax or total Group assets.
For the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
102 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Detailed audit instructions were sent to all auditors of in-scope components.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that we required to be covered by these auditors which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team visited component locations subject to audit in Brazil, Canada, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, The Netherlands, Romania and the United States, as well as visits to the shared service centres in Romania, Malaysia and Costa Rica.
In addition the Group audit team held audit risk planning and strategy regional conferences in the United Kingdom, Malaysia and the United States which component auditors attended.
Further to these visits and conferences, the Group team also held telephone and or online meetings as part of the audit planning phase to explain our audit instructions and discuss the component auditors plans as well upon completion of the component auditors engagements.
The findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail with component auditors as necessary, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 41 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
5 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and Directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the Directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the Principal Group risk factors of the Strategic Report, on page 48, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Group risk factors disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the Principal Group risk factors of the Strategic Report, of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Strategic Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 103 Financial Statements Independent auditors report @ to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. only continued 6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
7 Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 99, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified relevant areas of laws and regulations that could have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, through enquiry with the Directors and Management as required by auditing standards.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting, and company and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our audit of the Annual Accounts.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations related to anti-bribery and corruption, including the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 as amended.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these included enquiry of the Directors and Management.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our audit of the Annual Accounts.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level, with a request to report on any indications of potential existence of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified by the component team.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and the terms of our engagement by the Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report, and the further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with the terms agreed with the Company, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Mark Baillache Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 21 February 2018 104 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
