COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ESSENTRA PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Essentra plcs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2017: the Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies: the accounting policies: and the notes to the financial statements.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the Accounting Policies to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company.
Other than those disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the parent company in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
182 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 3.7m, based on 5% of profit before tax before intangibles amortisation and exceptional items.
Overall parent company materiality: 7.1m, based on 1% of net assets.
M Ma at te eri ria ali lit ty y There were no significant components within the Group.
A Au ud diit t We performed full scope audit work on 25 reporting units, and specified procedures sc scop ope e over certain balances on 33 reporting units.
This provided coverage of 67% revenue, 62% profit before tax, and 67% net assets.
K Ke ey a y au ud diit t m ma at tt ters ers Tax liabilities.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industries in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and parent company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Tax legislation, Employment regulation, Health and Safety legislation, and other legislation specific to the industries in which the Group operates.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of correspondence with the regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, enquiries with component auditors and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Tax liabilities We assessed managements process for identifying uncertain tax positions and the accounting policy for providing for tax The Group operates in a number of tax jurisdictions and recognises exposures.
tax based on interpretation of local laws and regulations which are sometimes uncertain.
At 31 December 2017, the Group has We considered managements assessment of known areas of current and non-current tax payables of 43.1m.
Where the uncertainty and the provisions held against these.
Through amount of tax payable is uncertain, the directors are required review of managements analysis of these positions, including to exercise significant judgment in determining the appropriate testing of detailed workings and consideration of advice received amount to provide in respect of potential tax exposures and from their tax advisors, we determined that the provisions uncertain tax positions.
recognised and the disclosures in the financial statements were reasonable.
We focused on the judgements made by management in assessing the likelihood and quantification of material exposures.
See page 129 for managements disclosure of this significant judgement.
Goodwill impairment We have assessed the methodology applied by management in performing their impairment review including the identification The Group has goodwill of 347.5m.
In the prior year an of CGUs under the new divisional structure, and the impairment of 123.9m was taken against the Health & Personal appropriateness of the valuation models.
Care Packaging HPC division and further impairment risk was identified in the HPC division based upon underlying trading We evaluated the future cash flow forecasts for each CGU, performance of particular components and the planned closure including short term cash flows, and the process by which of a site in the UK.
they were drawn up, and tested the underlying value in use calculations.
In doing this, we compared the cash flow forecasts All cash generating units CGUs containing goodwill and to the latest Board approved plans and compared prior year indefinite-lived intangible assets must be tested for impairment budget to actual data, in order to assess the quality of the annually.
Management must also determine the recoverable forecasting process.
The results of our evaluation proved to amount for other finite-lived assets where impairment be satisfactory.
We also tested key assumptions including exchange rates and The impairment reviews performed by management contain long-term growth rates by comparing them to third party a number of significant judgements and estimates including published economic and industry forecasts: and the discount revenue growth, profit margins and discount rates.
A change rate by recalculating the Groups cost of capital.
In respect to in these assumptions can result in a material change in the the HPC division we specifically considered the assumptions valuation of the assets.
regarding the recovery of site operating margin to industry See page 129 for managements disclosure of this average levels across the forecast period in light of managements significant judgement.
action plans to improve the performance of the business.
We also verified the assumptions regarding industry average performance levels to third party data.
We found the assumptions to be reasonable.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions to ascertain the extent of change in those assumptions that, either individually or collectively, would be required for the goodwill to be impaired.
As included within note 8, a reasonably possible change in assumptions for the HPC division would result in an impairment.
However this is expected as the value was impaired down to the value in use during 2016 and therefore the headroom against which assumptions are sensitised is low.
Disclosures included within note 8 have also been assessed for compliance with requirements and deemed reasonable.
184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Presentation of exceptional items We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policy for the recognition of exceptional items with reference The financial statements include certain items which are to the applicable accounting standards.
The nature of these exceptional items is explained within the Group accounting policy and includes We evaluated whether each of the items disclosed as exceptional transaction costs relating to acquisitions and disposals of met the criteria set out in the accounting policy and were businesses, acquisition integration and restructuring costs, consistent with the treatment adopted in previous accounting and other items such as impairment.
periods, to confirm that items were appropriately classified.
In continuing operations these exceptional costs relate to the We agreed a sample of restructuring costs incurred to invoices fundamental restructuring programme of 19.2m, the closure or other form of evidence such as payroll records.
Specifically, of the Newport cartons site of 35.4m, and acquisition and we have considered the inclusion of certain asset impairment disposal costs of 1.6m.
In discontinuing operations exceptional charges and an onerous contract as part of the exceptional items comprise a gain on disposal of the Porous Technologies item and we are satisfied that these charges have arisen as business of 132.4m.
In addition, 11,4m relating to the benefit a result of the strategic review process.
arising as a result of the US tax reform has been disclosed as We tested a sample of site closure costs incurred to invoices or exceptional.
other form of evidence such as payroll records and the property We focused on this area because items classified as exceptional lease agreement.
We have specifically considered the nature of require judgement by the directors as to whether the items these costs and concluded that the classification as exceptional meet the definition in the Groups accounting policy.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as exceptional is We read the sale and purchase agreement for disposal of important to maintain comparability of the results year on year.
the Porous Technologies business and verified the proceeds to bank receipts.
Adjustments to the profit on disposal were also See page 129 for managements disclosure of this sampled and agreed to supporting documentation such as significant judgement.
invoice or asset write off details.
We consider the classification to be appropriate given the nature of the disposal meets the definition of a discontinued operation.
Other acquisition and disposal costs were agreed to invoices to confirm they meet the group policy definition for exceptional items.
We have considered the presentation of benefit arising as a result of the US tax reform as exceptional and agreed the calculation of the benefit to managements impact assessment and detailed deferred tax workings without exception.
The disclosures included in note 2 were read and deemed reasonable.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the parent company to communicate in our report.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is split into three divisions being Components Solutions, Health & Personal Care Packaging, and Filter Products.
Each division consists of a large number of controller sites spread globally across 37 territories.
There are 268 reporting units within the consolidation, which include the controller sites and other consolidation units.
We did not identify any individually significant components within the Group, with the largest contribution to revenue being 6% from one controller site, and the average being 1%.
We determined the most effective approach was to engage PwC local component teams to perform full scope procedures over 20 reporting units, with the Group audit team performing full scope audit work over a further 5 reporting units.
In addition, specified audit procedures were performed by component auditors over certain balances, including revenue, at a further 6 reporting units in the Americas.
This approach ensures that appropriate audit coverage has been obtained over all financial statement line items.
Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement we needed to have in that audit work to ensure we could conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained for the Group financial statements as a whole.
We issued written instructions to all component auditors and had regular communications with them throughout the audit cycle.
This included a clearance meeting with each component team and review of all significant matters reported.
In addition the Group engagement partner has visited controller sites in the US, Singapore, Thailand and UK, including meeting with local audit teams and local management as part of these visits.
Based on the detailed audit work performed across the Group, we have gained coverage of 67% of total revenue, 62% of profit before tax, and 67% of net assets.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
186 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Parent company financial Group financial statements statements Overall materiality 3.7m 7.1m How we determined it 5% of profit before tax before intangibles 1% of net assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied The Group is profit-oriented, therefore it The entity is a holding company of the is considered most appropriate to apply a rest of the Group and is not a trading rule of thumb based upon a profit-based entity.
Therefore an asset based measure benchmark.
The directors, management is considered appropriate.
and the users of the Group financial statements focus on adjusted numbers, being adjusted operating profit, adjusted net income or adjusted pre-tax profit.
The Group defines adjusted as excluding the impact of intangible amortisation and exceptional items.
Based on this, we consider an adjusted metric of profit before tax before intangibles amortisation and exceptional items to be the most appropriate benchmark.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.2m and 3.3m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.2m Group audit and 0.2m Parent company audit as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
or draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in However, because not all future events or conditions can be the financial statements about whether the directors considered predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 72 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 111 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
188 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Other code provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 71, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and parent company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 77 to 78 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on pages 112 to 113, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
COM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the directors on 20 April 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
This is therefore our first year of uninterrupted engagement.
NICHOLAS STEVENSON Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Milton Keynes 2 March 2018 190
