FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report to the members of Overview KAZ Minerals PLC Materiality: $20 million 2016: $25 million 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Group financial 3.4% of Group profit before tax We have audited the financial statements of KAZ Minerals PLC statements as a whole 2016: 0.5% of total assets the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 which Coverage 99% 2016: 99% of comprise the consolidated statement of total comprehensive Group profit before tax income, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of cash flows, consolidated statement of changes in equity, Company Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 balance sheet, Company statement of cash flows and Company New risk Asset Valuation statement of changes in equity, and the related notes, including Recurring risk Bribery & Corruption the accounting policies in note 35.
New risk Revenue recognition In our opinion: copper cathode and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state concentrate products of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at Parent Company Investment impairment reversal 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year specific risk then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in The 2016 risk regarding disclosures relating to going concern accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as is no longer considered to be a key audit matter following the adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : refinancing of the PXF facility in June 2017, successful ramp up of the Parent Company financial statements have been properly Aktogay and Bozshakol and improved commodity markets.
We prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as will continue to monitor this area due to market and sector risks applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and the level of debt in the Group as it remains an overall risk for 2006: and the Group.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 15 May 2012.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the six financial years ended 31 December 2017.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
92 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 104 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below, the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and our findings from those procedures in order that the Companys members, as a body, may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
These matters were addressed and our findings are based on procedures undertaken in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Asset valuation Subjective valuation Our procedures included: Refer to page 79 Audit The Groups operating assets, some of which Controls design: Assessing the Groups controls over Committee Report, page 148 have previously been impaired, are assessed the identification of indicators of impairment or accounting policy and page for impairment at a CGU level which align to impairment reversal: 117 financial disclosures.
the operating divisions Bozshakol, Aktogay, Accounting application: Evaluation of managements East Region, and Bozymchak.
These assets are assessment that there are no indicators of impairment sensitive to changes in operational assumptions or impairment reversal of the Groups operating and metal pricing and therefore the Group assets, with reference to the criteria of IAS 36 need to make judgements as to whether Impairment of assets.
This included: certain events represent indicators of assessing the movement in commodity prices, impairment or impairment reversal.
inflation rates and exchange rates during the The assessment for impairment indicators of period: and the Groups sole exploration & evaluation asset, comparing the performance of each operating the Koksay deposit $242 million, requires the division to internal budgets.
Group to exercise judgement around complex Accounting application: Evaluation of the Groups areas such as economic value and can often be assessment that there are no indicators of impairment difficult to determine given the relatively early of the Koksay asset with reference to the criteria of stage of development.
The areas of judgement IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral include the ability of the Group to secure an Resources.
This included: extension to the exploration element of the Koksay licence which expires in June 2018, considering the proposed extension of exploration the Groups intention to proceed with a rights by inspecting historical extensions for this future work programme and the success asset and others of a similar nature: and of development and geological analysis.
comparing the carrying value to other market valuations including resource multiples and recent corporate transactions in the copper mining industry.
Our findings We found the Groups assessment that there were no indicators of impairment or impairment reversal of the Groups operating assets and that there were no indicators of impairment of the Koksay asset to be balanced.
com 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED The risk Our response Bribery and Business operations: Our procedures included: corruption The Groups business involves Policy assessment: We evaluated the Groups anti-bribery and corruption mining activities in Kazakhstan and policies and procedures including evaluating the tone set by the Board and Kyrgyzstan.
Transparency Internationals by senior management Corruption Perceptions Index 2016 Controls design and operation: Assessing the design and operating and our own experience indicates effectiveness of the Groups controls over the selection of suppliers that corruption risks remain significant and the process over acknowledging acceptance of services equipment in both countries.
provided by suppliers: Significant amounts of expenditure Test of detail: Selecting a sample of transactions across the Group, using continue to be incurred on the major risk criteria, that at face value appeared as though they might have been development projects, existing and outside the normal course of business including those with government new projects including payments in agencies or officials, enquiry of management about these transactions and respect of social projects.
corroboration of such explanations given by investigating the nature and In addition, companies in the evaluating the business rationale for the transactions, taking into account mining sector are inherently at higher our experience of mining and other industries in Kazakhstan and risk from bribery and corruption Kyrgyzstan: and due to the significant level of Our forensics expertise: Using our own forensic and compliance experts government regulation and to assist with the design of our audit procedures.
Our findings This could result in material The results of our procedures were satisfactory and we did not identify any losses to the Group and material instances of improper payments or indications of bribery or corruption improper payments not being 2016 audit findings: none identified.
Revenue Transaction processing Our procedures included: recognition The Group is principally engaged Control design and effectiveness: Assessing the design and copper cathode in the production and sale of copper operating effectiveness of the Groups controls over the recognition and concentrate concentrate and cathode products.
of revenue transactions: products With the ramp up of the Groups Test of details: Testing a sample of revenue transactions throughout the $1,663 million: Bozshakol and Aktogay mines, year to the underlying documentation including sales contracts, bills of 2016: $766 volumes of production and hence lading, invoices and cash receipts for settled balances, to confirm the million sales have increased significantly existence and accuracy of revenue recorded and that it has been Refer to page 150 over the previous financial reporting recorded in the correct period: and accounting period.
The Groups processes for Journals analysis: Analysis of unusual journal entries impacting revenue to policy and recording copper revenues are determine whether the impact on revenue was appropriate.
page 122 manual in nature and involve a Our findings financial third party logistics organisation The results of our testing were satisfactory.
We found no errors in the disclosures.
and therefore our audit procedures calculation of revenue.
to address the risk require more time and effort relative to other audit areas.
Parent company Forecast based valuation: Our procedures included: risk: Investment The Parent Companys investment in Controls design: Assessing the Groups controls over the identification of impairment the Group has been impaired in the impairment indicators reversal past.
In 2016 with the successful Benchmarking assumptions: Assessing the accuracy of valuation $840 million: ramp up of the Groups projects calculations and comparing the Groups assumptions to externally 2016: $1,468 and improved copper prices, derived data in relation to key inputs such as commodity prices, cost million $1,468 million of previous inflation and discount rates: impairments were reversed.
Refer to Comparing valuations: Comparing the sum of the discounted cash flows page 79 Audit With continued operational to the Groups market capitalisation and the median of market analysts Committee improvement and continued valuations to assess the reasonableness of the valuation: and Report, strengthening of the copper price Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures about page 155 a further reversal of $840 million the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in accounting has been recognised in 2017. key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of Group.
policy and Given the size of the partial reversal Our findings page 155 and the complexities involved in We found the assumptions for the valuation of the Parent Companys financial valuing the investments there is investment, and therefore the impairment reversal recorded, to be disclosures.
We found the disclosures to be proportionate in their description of the assumptions and estimates made and the sensitivity to changes thereof.
94 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 106 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview Group profit before tax Group materiality of the scope of our audit $580 million $20.0 million Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 2016: $220.0 million 2016: $25.0 million $20.0 million 2016: $25.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of $580 million, of which it $20.0 million Group financial represents 3.4% 2016: 0.5% of total assets of $5,057 million.
statements materiality 2016: $25.0 million In the prior year, materiality was determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets.
A change in the benchmark was made to reflect that the Groups major growth projects, which were under $16.0 million development in the prior period, are now fully operational assets.
Range of materiality Materiality for the Company financial statements as a whole at 13 components $16 million to $0.45 million was set at $16.0 million 2016: $10.7 million, determined 2016: $20 million to $0.4 million with reference to component materiality set by the Group audit $1.0 million team.
This is lower than the materiality we would otherwise have Misstatements above this threshold Group profit before tax determined by reference to total assets, and represents 0.4% of are reported to the Audit Committee Group materiality 2016: $1.25 million the Companys total assets 2016: 0.3%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding $1.0 million, in Group revenue Group profit before tax addition to other identified misstatements that warranted absolute reporting on qualitative grounds.
2 1 Of the Groups 37 2016: 37 reporting components, we 1 1 subjected 13 2016: 13 to full scope audits for Group purposes.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
98% 99% For the residual components, we performed analysis at an 99 98 99 99 2016: 99% 2016: 99% aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The group team instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The group team approved the component materialities, which ranged from $16.0 million to $0.45 million 2016: $20.0 million to $0.4 million, having regard Group total assets to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
The work on 4 of the 13 components 2016: 4 of 2 the 13 components was performed by component auditors and 3 the rest, including the audit of the Company, was performed by the group team.
Full scope for Group audit The group team visited all 4 Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan component purposes 2017 98% teams on 3 2016: 2 separate occasions to assess the audit risk and Full scope for Group audit 97 98 purposes 2016 strategy.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these 2016: 97% Residual components component auditors frequently throughout the year.
At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to the group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the group team was then performed by the component auditor.
com 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability We are required to report to you if: Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation attention to in relation to: to the directors statement in note 2a to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no the directors confirmation within the directors viability material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would at least twelve months from the date of approval of the threaten its business model, future performance, solvency financial statements: or and liquidity: the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and 102 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the directors viability statement We have nothing to report in these respects.
of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over 5.
We have nothing to report on the other what period they have done so and why they considered that information in the Annual Report period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether The directors are responsible for the other information presented they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other over the period of their assessment, including any related information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, Corporate governance disclosures the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with We are required to report to you if: the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the we have identified material inconsistencies between the other information.
knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the Strategic Report and Directors Report annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, Based solely on our work on the other information: balanced and understandable and provides the information we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position report and the directors report: and performance, business model and strategy: or in our opinion the information given in those reports for the the section of the annual report describing the work of the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
96 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 108 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
We have nothing to report on the other Irregularities ability to detect matters on which we are required to report Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws by exception and regulations irregularities that could have a material effect on Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you the financial statements.
In planning and performing our audit, we if, in our opinion: considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of compliance with Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan mining regulations adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent given non compliance can lead to the Group losing their licence Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been to operate.
We identified these areas through discussion with received from branches not visited by us: or the directors and other management as required by auditing the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the standards, from our sector and country experience, and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in from inspection of the Groups regulatory, licensing and agreement with the accounting records and returns: or legal correspondence.
In addition we had regard to laws certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law and regulations in other areas including financial reporting, are not made: or and company and taxation legislation.
we have not received all the information and explanations we We considered the extent of compliance with those laws require for our audit.
and regulations that directly affect the financial statements being We have nothing to report in these respects.
tax legislation and financial reporting including related company legislation, as part of our procedures on the related financial 7.
For the remaining laws and regulations we made Directors responsibilities enquiries of directors and other management as required by As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 102, auditing standards and inspected correspondence with the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial regulatory and licensing authorities.
statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance the preparation of financial statements that are free from material throughout the audit.
This included communication from the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations and Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as identified at Group level, with a request to report on any applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going indications of potential existence of irregularities in these areas, concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate or other areas directly identified by the component team.
the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional Auditors responsibilities omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities owe our responsibilities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
to the Companys members those matters we are required to Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Juliette Lowes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 21 February 2018 www.
