Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 44 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST PLC OPINION CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING We have audited the financial statements of Herald CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Investment Trust PLC the Company for the year ended We have nothing to report in respect of the following 31 December 2017 which comprise the Income Statement, information in the annual report, in relation to which the the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Changes in Equity, the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 21, including anything material to add or draw attention to: a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 31 reporting framework that has been applied in their that describe the principal risks and explain how they are preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting being managed or mitigated: Standards including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting the directors confirmation set out on page 31 in the Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland annual report that they have carried out a robust United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, In our opinion, the financial statements: future performance, solvency or liquidity: give a true and fair view of the Companys affairs as at the directors statement set out on page 38 in the annual 31 December 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: report about whether they considered it appropriate to have been properly prepared in accordance with United adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and them, and their identification of any material uncertainties have been prepared in accordance with the requirements to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of of the Companies Act 2006. at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: BASIS FOR OPINION whether the directors statement in relation to going We conducted our audit in accordance with International concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with Our responsibilities under those standards are further our knowledge obtained in the audit: or described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the the directors explanation set out on page 31 in the financial statements section of our report below.
We are annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects independent of the company in accordance with the ethical of the entity, over what period they have done so and requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as statement as to whether they have a reasonable applied to public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our expectation that the entity will be able to continue in other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the requirements.
period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is qualifications or assumptions.
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Key audit matters Incorrect recognition of investment income.
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Incorrect valuation of the quoted and unquoted Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken investment portfolio, including incorrect so that we might state to the companys members those application of exchange rate movements.
matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Materiality Overall materiality of 9.7m which represents report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent 1%of net assets.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys KEY AUDIT MATTERS members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional orforthe opinions we have formed.
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 45 Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk AuditCommittee Incorrect recognition of investment income, We performed the following procedures: The results of our procedures to test 10.8m 2016: 9.5m.
investment income identified no issues We obtained an understanding of The Bank with the occurrence, measurement or of New York Mellon International Limited As described in Accounting policies page 54 : completeness of investment income.
the Administrator and Herald Investment and Note 2 page 55 to the financial statements.
Management Limiteds the Manager The Company has reported investment income We concurred with the accounting treatment processes and controls for the recognition of 10.8m 2016: 9.5m.
Special dividend adopted for material special dividends.
of investment income by performing income for the year amounted to 358k, of walkthrough procedures, reviewing the which 267k was treated as income and 91k Based on the work performed, we had no Administrators and Managers internal was treated as capital.
control reports and discussing with the Manager the governance structure and Special dividends by their nature require the protocols for oversight of investment exercise of judgment as to whether the income income recognition.
receivable should be classified as revenue or For a sample of dividend receipts capital for Section 1158 of the Corporation representing key items, we agreed Tax Act, 2010 purposes.
For special dividends dividends received from the income report the Company determines whether amounts to an independent pricing source for should be credited to the revenue or capital occurrence and measurement.
We also columns of the Income Statement based on agreed this sample to the bank statement the underlying substance of the transaction.
to test the receipt of the income.
We focus on the recognition of revenue and its We agreed all accrued dividends at presentation in the financial statements as it is the period end to the Custodian and a key area for shareholders.
There is a risk that Depositary statements, an independent an incorrect classification of revenue in the pricing source, and post year-end broker Income Statement could potentially result in statements.
the mis-representation of financial information For all special dividends received during the to shareholders and put the Companys year, we reviewed their recognition basis to investment trust status at risk.
ensure they were appropriately allocated between revenue and capital within the Specifically in relation to our procedures Income Statement.
on management override, we consider the We corroborated the appropriateness of risk that inappropriate journal entries are journal entry adjustments made in relation applied to the income account resulting in a to investment income in the preparation manipulation of the Companys revenue to of the financial statements with source support performance targets.
Incorrect valuation of the quoted and We performed the following procedures: The results of our procedures on existence of unquoted investment portfolio, including investments identified no material errors in the We obtained an understanding of the incorrect application of exchange rate reconciliation.
Managers and the Administrators movements.
systems and controls in relation to The results of our procedures on the valuation quoted investments by performing a As described in Accounting policies of the total investment portfolio identified no walkthrough, reviewing the Administrators page54 : and Note 9 page 57-58 to the material error.
and Managers internal control reports financial statements.
and discussing with the Manager the Based on the work performed, we have no governance structure and protocols for Investments held at the year-end were valued further observations to communicate.
oversight of the valuation for quoted at 926m 2016: 713m.
held at the year-end were 912.6m 2016: We agreed the existence for 100% of the 701.2m.
quoted and unquoted investment portfolio to third-party confirmations.
Unquoted investments held at the year-end were 12.9m comprising 1.6% of the total We reviewed the year end reconciliation investment portfolio 2016: 11.7m comprising of the Companys records to those of the 1.6% of the total investment portfolio.
Custodian and Depositary and confirmed all reconciling items were appropriate.
The valuation of the assets held in the investment portfolio is the key driver of the For quoted investments: Companys net asset value and investment We compared the prices of 100% of return.
Incorrect asset pricing or a failure to the quoted investment portfolio to an maintain proper legal title of assets by the independent pricing source.
Company could have a significant impact on We recalculated the value of quoted portfolio valuation and, therefore, the return investments in foreign currencies to verify generated for shareholders.
the accuracy of the corresponding sterling balances based upon exchange rates from an external source.
For unquoted investments: For a sample of unquoted investments representing 80% of their balance, we reviewed managements methodology for determining the fair value of the investments, agreed the inputs into the valuation models to third party sources and re-performed calculations in order to confirm their arithmetical accuracy.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 46 GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST PLC AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT OTHER INFORMATION TAILORING THE SCOPE The other information comprises the information included Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality in the Annual Report set out on pages 1 to 43, other than the and our allocation of performance materiality determine our financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The audit scope for the company.
This enables us to form an directors are responsible for the other information.
opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the company and Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in other information and, except to the extent otherwise the business environment when assessing the level of work explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of to be performed.
All audit work was performed directly by assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing so, consider whether the other information is materially the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or Materiality apparent material misstatements, we are required to The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, determine whether there is a material misstatement in the individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be financial statements or a material misstatement of the other expected to influence the economic decisions of the users information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
information, we are required to report that fact.
We determined materiality for the company to be 9.7m We have nothing to report in this regard.
We have derived our materiality calculation based on a In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to proportion of shareholders funds as it is the most important our responsibility to specifically address the following items financial metric on which shareholders judge the in the other information and to report as uncorrected performance of the Company.
material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 37 materiality and made no changes to the basis of calculation the statement given by the directors that they consider from our original assessment at the planning stage.
the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Performance materiality the information necessary for shareholders to assess the The application of materiality at the individual account or companys performance, business model and strategy, is balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected the audit: or and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
Audit committee reporting set out on page 37 the section describing the work of the audit committee does On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our not appropriately address matters communicated by us to assessment of the companys overall control environment, the audit committee: or our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% Directors statement of compliance with the UK 2016: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 7.2m 2016: Corporate Governance Code set out on page 36 the 5.9m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage parts of the directors statement required under the due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in Given the importance of the distinction between revenue accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly and capital for the Company we have also applied a separate disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK testing threshold of 37k 2016: 34k for the revenue Corporate Governance Code.
column of the Income Statement, being 5% of the revenue profit before taxation.
OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 Reporting threshold In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report An amount below which identified misstatements are to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 483k of the audit: 2016: 395k, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, the information given in the strategic report and the warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both financial statements: and the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and the strategic report and directors reports have been in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in prepared in accordance with applicable legal forming our opinion.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 47 MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT Our approach was as follows: BYEXCEPTION We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the frameworks that are applicable to the Company and company and its environment obtained in the course of the determined that the most significant are the Companies audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Act 2006, the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and strategic report or directors report.
Transparency Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 and section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following We understood how Herald Investment Trust PLC is matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 complying with those frameworks through discussions with requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: the Audit Committee and company secretary, and review adequate accounting records have not been kept, or of the Companys documented policies and procedures.
returns adequate for our audit have not been received Based on this understanding we designed our audit from branches not visited by us: or procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws the financial statements and the part of the Directors and regulations.
Our procedures involved review of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement reporting to the Directors with respect to the application with the accounting records and returns: or of the documented policies and procedures and review certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified of the financial statements to ensure compliance with the by law are not made: or reporting requirements of the Company.
we have not received all the information and explanations We have reviewed that the Companys control we require for our audit.
environment is adequate for the size and operating model of such a listed investment company.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS We assessed the susceptibility of the financial statements As explained more fully in the statement of directors to material misstatement, including how fraud might responsibilities set out on page 43, the directors are occur by considering the key risks impacting the financial responsible for the preparation of the financial statements statements.
We identified a fraud risk with respect to and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and management override in relation to inappropriate for such internal control as the directors determine is revenue journals.
We noted no issues in agreeing a necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements sample of revenue journal entries back to the audited that are free from material misstatement, whether due to income report or through to the corresponding fraud or error.
announcements prepared by the Company.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of responsible for assessing the companys ability to continue the financial statements is located on the as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
to going concern and using the going concern basis of uk .
This description forms part of our accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the auditors report.
company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
OTHER MATTERS WE ARE REQUIRED TO ADDRESS We were appointed by the company on 16 June 1994 to AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE audit the financial statements for the year ending FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 1994 and subsequent financial periods.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about The period of total uninterrupted engagement including whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to previous renewals and reappointments is 24 years, covering the years ending 31 December 1994 to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not 31 December 2017. a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical UK will always detect a material misstatement when it Standard were not provided to the company and we remain exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are independent of the company in conducting the audit.
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report could reasonably be expected to influence the economic to the audit committee.
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
EXPLANATION AS TO WHAT EXTENT THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to Ashley Coups Senior statutory auditor identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient London appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of 20 February 2018 material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond Notes: appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Herald Investment Trust PLC web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
charged with governance of the entity and management.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 48 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Statements 50 Income Statement 51 Balance Sheet 52 Statement of Changes in Equity 53 Cash Flow Statement 54 Notes to the Financial Statements 67 Notice of Annual General Meeting 69 Further Shareholder Information Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 49
